IN PERSON
AND ELECTRONICALLY BIZIM
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD
LIKE TO COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR
OTHER MATTERS MAY DO SO VIA
TELEPHONE ONLY TO SPEAK DURING
ANY OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT
OPPORTUNITIES.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE CALL EIGHT EIGHT
EIGHT EIGHT EXCUSE ME EIGHT
EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT
ZERO ZERO NINE NINE AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE MAKE SURE
THAT&apos;S CORRECT BECAUSE I
BELIEVE NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX
SIX NINE NINE SEVEN SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLIC AGENDA
AND THE PUBLIC AT PUBLIC NOTICE
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CHANNEL 16 AT&amp;T
CHANNEL NINETY AND ONLINE AT
W-W THAT A TWO GOV DOG FORWARD
SLASH WATCH AND MISS THATCHER
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL ROLL
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE
COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE
COMMISSIONER WILLIS HERE.
COMMISSIONER EVERSON
COMMISSIONER QUIJANO HERE.
COMMISSIONER ORTNER
COMMISSIONER ROSS YOU HAVE A
QUORUM.
THANK YOU, MR. I&apos;LL MOVE ON TO
ITEM C APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA?
LET ME CHECK THERE ARE NOT
YOU&apos;LL NOTE THAT ITEM FIVE WAS
INCOMPLETE.
&gt;&gt; SO WE WILL BE HOLDING A
QUICK PUBLIC HEARING ON THAT
BUT THERE WON&apos;T BE ANY STAFF
PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, MR. SCHINE.
NO CHANGES.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED ONTO ITEM D PUBLIC
COMMENT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND INTERMEETING IDX NINE SIX
FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE
SEVEN SIX TWO.
MISS THATCHER DO WE HAVE ANY
CALLERS INDICATING FOR COMMENT
WE DO NOT CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION AND MOVE ON TO
ITEM E UNFINISHED BUSINESS AND
NONE NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
I&apos;M HEARING HEARING F ONE
THIRTEEN SEVENTEEN BROADWAY
DISPATCHER WE PLEASE GIVE THE
STAFF REPORT RIGHT
THERE WE GO
.
ALL RIGHT.
APOLOGIZE TO OUR AUDIENCE
MEMBERS IF YOU WANT TO SEE A
SLIDE SHOW YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE
TO TURN ON.
LOOK AT THE THE TV&apos;S BEHIND
YOU, THE TV BEHIND YOU IF YOU
WANT TO SEE WHAT I&apos;M TALKING
ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; THIRTEEN SEVENTEEN BROADWAY
IS IN THE BROADWAY HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THE LET ME GO DOWN
THE SIDE ONCE AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; OH GOOD OH GOOD TIMES OVER
TO THIS IS A CIRCA EIGHTEEN
FIFTY FIVE JOHN TAYLOR HOUSE
IT&apos;S A CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE
IN THE DISTRICT AND I AM
ATTACHED TO THE BROADWAY
HISTORIC DISTRICT RESOURCE
DOCUMENTATION IN THE STAFF
REPORT JUST IT&apos;S A VERNACULAR
HOME IT&apos;S ONE AND A HALF
STORIES.
THE CURRENT CLADDING IS ASPHALT
SIDING BRICK FAKE BRICK OVER
OVER WOOD CLABBERED IT IS ON A
CUT STONE FOUNDATION AND IT HAS
A SHALLOW BAY ON THE SOUTH
ELEVATION AND I&apos;LL SHOW YOU
THAT WHEN I GO THROUGH THE
PHOTOS IN JUST A SEC.
THE FRONT PORCH HAS BEEN
EXTENSIVELY MODIFIED AND THE
SIDE PORCH HAS BEEN SLIGHTLY
LESS BUT STILL MODIFIED ITS
FOUR SHOWS UP IN A CITY
DIRECTORY IN 1868 AND MR.
TAYLOR WORKED IN A PAPER MILL
AND THEN TURNED A HOUSE MOVING
GEORGE CROUT TINSMITH WAS
RESIDENT IN ONE TIME AND THE
REGULAR THE APPLICANT SEEKING
APPROVAL TO INSTALL VINYL
SIDING OVER EXISTING ASPHALT
SIDING.
THIS WAS AN UNUSUAL ONE LAST
MONTH AT THE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE WE WERE GOING UP THE
HILL TO BROADWAY AND I HAPPENED
TO NOTICE THAT A CONTRACTOR WAS
INSTALLING VINYL WHICH YOU CAN
SEE IN THIS PHOTO HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO I HAD TO STOP AND SAY YOU
NEED FDA APPROVAL BEFORE YOU DO
THAT.
SO THEY DID AND WERE VERY
RESPONSIVE.
THE OWNER GOT IN TOUCH WITH ME
THE NEXT MORNING AND MADE THIS
APPLICATION TO THE DC.
SO THESE ARE REVIEW COMMITTEE
PHOTOS FROM MONDAY.
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE VIOLENCE
BEEN INSTALLED JUST ON THIS ONE
SIDE ELEVATION TINY BIT AROUND
THE CORNER HERE AND NOT EVEN
ALL THE WAY UP
.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S A LITTLE BIT BETTER
PHOTO OF IT.
THE EXISTING ASPHALT FAKE BRICK
SIDING IS IN POOR CONDITION.
I THINK I HAVE SOME MORE PHOTOS
OF THAT AND THERE ARE ALSO A
BUNCH OF REALLY GOOD PHOTOS IN
THE APPLICATION AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;LL NOTE THAT THERE IS
SOME INTERESTING SHINGLE WORK
ABOVE THE PORCH THIS THIS
SQUARE POST IS A REPLACEMENT
FOR SOMETHING EARLIER PROBABLY
A TURN PORCH POST BUT THIS ROOF
STRUCTURE APPEARS TO BE
ORIGINAL AND THIS THIS THIS
LITTLE BIT IS IS PROBABLY THE
MOST CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURE
LEFT ON THIS HOUSE.
IT&apos;S NOT KNOWN WHAT&apos;S
UNDERNEATH THE BRICK SIDING AND
WHETHER THERE&apos;S ANY MORE
DETAILING UNDER THERE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
NOW ON THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE
THIS IS A LITTLE LITTLE SHALLOW
POPPED OUT BAY WINDOW WITH A
LITTLE SHED ROOF.
YOU CAN SEE THE NICE STONE
FOUNDATION.
THEY&apos;RE MOVING AROUND THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A PRETTY
SIMPLE HOUSE HAS A BRICK
CHIMNEY ON THE SIDE.
I&apos;M NOT SURE WHEN THAT WAS
INSTALLED AND ONE VERY
INTERESTING THING IS THESE
THESE WINDOW I GUESS THOSE ARE
LINDA LINTELS OR SIL&apos;S BELOW
THE SILLS.
THE WINDOWS SIT ON THEM ONLY
THESE TWO WINDOWS HAVE THEM ON
THE WHOLE HOUSE AS FAR AS I CAN
TELL THEY DON&apos;T HAVE THEM BACK
HERE UNLESS THEY&apos;RE POSSIBLY
COVERED UP.
BUT IT WOULD BE UNUSUAL TO HAVE
A STONE OR A MASONRY LINTEL
DOWN THERE ON A FRAME HOUSE SO
IT&apos;S JUST IT&apos;S NEITHER HERE NOR
THERE FOR THIS APPLICATION.
&gt;&gt; I JUST THOUGHT IT WAS REALLY
INTERESTING TO SEE THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE DID NOTICE THAT THERE
WAS A PIECE OF THE THE BRICK
SIDING SIDING MISSING SO YOU
COULD SEE VERY CLEARLY THE THE
PREVIOUS LAP SIDING AND WHAT
THAT EXPOSURE WAS AND ALSO THAT
SOMEBODY HAS GONE THROUGH AND
DRILL HOLES IN IT FOR IT TO
BLOW IN INSULATION.
&gt;&gt; SO THOSE LITTLE HOLES ARE
PROBABLY ALL OVER THE PLACE
UNDER THERE AND THIS IS A SIDE
VIEW WHERE YOU CAN SEE WHERE
THE LAMP SIDING IS THIS IS
ACTUALLY THIS IS PROBABLY IT
THIS IS THE FERRING STRIP THAT
ASPHALT SIDING IS ATTACHED TO
LIKE THE THAT YOU SEE HERE ON
THE LEFT
.
LET&apos;S SEE SO THE VINYL SIDING
IS PROPOSED TO BE INSTALLED
OVER THE FAUX BRICK SIDING AND
THE APPLICATION SAYS THAT NO
FASCIA LEAVES ARE WINDOW TRIM
IN THE HOUSE WOULD BE
COVERED OVER WITH VINYL.
&gt;&gt; IT DOES SAY THOUGH THAT THE
HALF GABAL ABOVE THE SIDE DOOR
THAT HAS A WOOD DECORATIVE
SHINGLES WOULD BE COVERED WITH
WHITE VINYL SCARABS AND THE
FRONT WOULD ALSO HAVE WHITE
VINYL SCALPED INSTALLED THE
EXTENTS NOT KNOWN AND SO THERE
THERE THERE THERE ARE MANY
COMPETING FACTORS IN THIS
APPLICATION.
&gt;&gt; SO LET ME GO THROUGH THE
STANDARD GUIDELINES THEN WE CAN
GET INTO MORE OF THE DETAIL SO
STANDARD WHO SAYS THAT THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF A
PROPERTY WILL BE RETAINED AND
PRESERVED THE REMOVAL
OF DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION OF FEATURE SPACES
AND SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY WILL
BE AVOIDED.
NUMBER THREE SAYS EACH PROPERTY
WILL BE RECOGNIZED AS PHYSICAL
RECORD OF ITS TIME, PLACE AND
USE CHANGES THAT CREATE A FALSE
SENSE OF HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT
SUCH AS ADDING CONJECTURAL
FEATURES OR ELEMENTS FROM THE
HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
WILL THAT BE UNDERTAKEN FOR
SUCH CHANGES TO A PROPERTY THAT
HAVE ACQUIRED HISTORIC
SIGNIFICANCE IN THEIR OWN RIGHT
WILL BE RETAINED AND PRESERVED
PIPES AS DISTINCT MATERIALS
FEATURES FINISHES AND
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
NINE SAYS THAT NEW ADDITIONS
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEWARK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSIVE SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
FINALLY, NO TENSAS NEW
ADDITIONS AND ADJACENT OR
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL
BE UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
THE ESSENTIAL FORM AND
INTEGRITY OF THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY WILL BE UNIMPAIRED.
&gt;&gt; OK FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED
TO IDENTIFY, RETAIN AND
PRESERVE BUILDINGS AND THEIR
FEATURES AS WELL AS FEATURES
OF THE SITE THAT ARE IMPORTANT
IN DEFINING ITS OVERALL STAR
CHARACTER.
IT&apos;S NOT RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE
OR RADICALLY CHANGE BUILDINGS
IN THEIR FEATURES OR SITE
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER FROM THE ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR SYNTHETIC
REPLACEMENT SIDING IT&apos;S
APPROPRIATE TO IDENTIFY, RETAIN
AND PRESERVE WOOD FEATURES ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL CHARACTER OF THE
BUILDING SUCH AS CITING
CORNICES BRACKETT&apos;S WINDOW
ARCHITRAVES AND DOORWAY
PEDIMENTS AND THEIR PAINTS
FINISHES IN COLORS ALSO USING A
REPLACEMENT SIDING THAT
EXHIBITS A SMOOTH TEXTURE NOT
APPROPRIATE AS USING VINYL
SIDING TO REPLACE WOOD OR
SEMIOTICIAN SIDING AND
OBSCURING CHARACTER DEFINING
TRIM DETAILS SUCH AS CORNERS,
WINDOW AND DOOR HOODS AND
ORNAMENTAL SHINGLES.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
SO I THINK THAT THIS SITE IS
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IF THERE IS
THIS BLOWN IN INSULATION
THROUGH THE SIDING HERE,
THERE&apos;S PROBABLY ANOTHER ONE
EVERY THREE FEET.
&gt;&gt; NO COMMISSIONER RACHLIN.
&gt;&gt; YES.
PLACE THE HOME ON BEHALF OF THE
HOMEOWNER ABOUT MAYBE FIVE OR
SIX OF THEM.
OK, HE SAID THAT HIS INSULATION
CONTRACTOR WENT THROUGH ALL THE
BAYS AND CHECKED THEM ALL
APPARENTLY TO SEE FULL OR NOT
OK ONES THAT WERE NOT WELL THEY
GOT THE TREATMENT OF TEARING UP
THROUGH THE BRICK A HOLE WITH
CELLULOSE IN THERE AND THEY
USED FOAM TO CAPITAL OK OK OK.
THAT ONE IN EVERY DAY.
&gt;&gt; OK THAT&apos;S GOOD TO KNOW.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
OK SO YOU KNOW FIVE OR SIX
HOLES I THINK COULD BE MORE
APPROPRIATELY PATCHED.
&gt;&gt; I WAS A LITTLE CONCERNED
ABOUT 40 OR 50 HOLES.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT SO THAT WAS ONE
THING THAT I WANTED YOU TO TAKE
INTO CONSIDERATION THE SAFETY
RIGHT NOW IS NOT WHAT ARE SEVEN
TISH&apos;S AND THE STANDARDS SAY
THAT YOU SHOULD NOT COVER WHAT
ARE SEMANTICIST WITH VINYL.
&gt;&gt; THIS RIGHT HERE.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T THINK THAT ANY
OF THE WOOD TRIM SHOULD THE
COMMISSION BE CONSIDERING THE
IDEA OF ALLOWING VINYL ON THIS
HOUSE.
NONE OF THE TRIM SHOULD BE
ALLOWED TO BE COVERED .
I THINK THAT&apos;S JUST A STARTING
PLACE AND IT IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO
LOOK THE SAME.
IT&apos;S VERY IMPORTANT THAT THIS
BE KEPT AS IT WAS THE LAST TIME
THAT THE FAKE SIGHTING WAS PUT
ON OVER THE WOOD.
SO THOSE THINGS SHOULD JUST
REMAIN EXPOSED EITHER WHICH
SO
THIS IS TOUGH.
&gt;&gt; IF THE PROPERTY OWNER HAD
CONTACTED ME AHEAD OF TIME I
WOULD HAVE SAID VINYL IS
INAPPROPRIATE AND JUST LEFT IT
AT THAT IT WOULD HAVE AND GOOD
ALSO AT THAT TIME TO FIND OUT
WHAT WAS UNDERNEATH THERE.
WELL NOW WE KNOW BECAUSE THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE SAW THOSE
THOSE PIECES THAT WERE CUT OUT
ANOTHER YOU KNOW, THEY COULD
HAVE JUST REPAIRED A PHOBIA
EXCITING WHICH WOULD HAVE BEEN
HARD BECAUSE THAT STUFF&apos;S
PROBABLY NOT AVAILABLE ANYMORE
IN A MORE APPROPRIATE CITING TO
USE OVER OTHER SIDING WOULD BE
CEMENT OR TEISHA SIDING INSTEAD
OF VINYL.
I AM STILL CONCERNED THAT THE
NUMBER OF LAYERS THAT WE&apos;RE
GETTING INTO OF SITING HERE SEE
HOW THE THESE ARE WHAT THEY
CALL J CHANNELS.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S NOW ALMOST AND MAY BE
PROUD OF THE THE WOOD WINDOW
FRAMING HERE WHEN REALLY IT
SHOULD BE A LITTLE BIT BEHIND
IT OR AT BEST FLUSH WITH THE
EDGE OF IT.
I WORRY ABOUT HOW THAT&apos;S GOING
TO LOOK APPEARANCE WISE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT THE
CONDITION OF THE SIDING
UNDERNEATH THE ASPHALT.
&gt;&gt; ASPHALT SIDING IS IS
NOTORIOUS FOR CAPTURING WATER
AND HOLDING IT IN REALLY WELL
AGAINST THAT WOOD SIDING.
&gt;&gt; BUT THERE&apos;S REALLY NO WAY TO
FIND OUT HOW MUCH DAMAGE HAS
BEEN DONE UNLESS IT&apos;S ALL TAKEN
OFF.
SO GOING STRICTLY OFF OF THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES STAFF
DOESN&apos;T RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF THIS APPLICATION BECAUSE I
DON&apos;T FEEL THAT IT MEETS THEM.
BUT I DO THINK THAT THAT IT&apos;S
APPROPRIATE FOR THE COMMISSION
TO, YOU KNOW, DISCUSS IT AND
OVER THE THE FINER POINTS.
SO THANK YOU.
THAT&apos;S THANK YOU MISS THATCHER.
I BELIEVE COMMISSIONERS RACHLIN
AND ROS WE&apos;RE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR REPORT
AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
OK, I CAN START I GUESS THE
SITUATION SEEMED PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD SO JUST YOU
KNOW, JUST I GUESS REITERATING
STEPS, UNDERSTANDING OF THE
SITUATION.
&gt;&gt; THERE WERE A FEW HOLES WHERE
INSULATION HAD BEEN BLOWN IN
LIKE A HANDFUL OF THE EXCITING
THOSE SUCKAGE THAT YOU KNOW
CLEARLY IS AN ORIGINAL.
CLEARLY IT MAKES SENSE TO GET
RID OF IT.
&gt;&gt; THERE DID APPEAR TO BE THAT
THE SORT SITING UNDERNEATH THE
SILVER EXCITING AND WE HAVE THE
VINYL SIDING AND YOU THE
OBVIOUS ISSUES THAT COMES ALONG
WITH VINYL SIDING ON A HISTORIC
HOUSE ESPECIALLY AT THIS AGE.
YES.
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T REALLY HAVE A
LOT MORE TO ADD JUST BECAUSE IT
WAS JUST KIND OF A
STRAIGHTFORWARD SITUATION.
OK, I WILL NOTE THAT IT APPEARS
THAT THERE&apos;S A ADDITION LIKE IF
YOU JUST LOOK AT THE FOUNDATION
OF THE HOUSE, IT LOOKS LIKE THE
REAR PART OF THE HOUSE WAS
ADDED LATER.
SO YEAH, THAT PHOTO THERE
EITHER IS CHARGED OVER THE
STONE OR IT&apos;S HAD AN EITHER
IT&apos;S A REPLACEMENT OR WHATEVER
BUT THERE&apos;S SOME CLUES THAT
MAYBE THAT&apos;S IN ADDITION THAT
THAT&apos;S WHERE MOST OF THE HOLES
WERE ALSO LIKE MAYBE THEY WERE
ONLY A COUPLE IN THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE AND THEN IT LOOKED
LIKE THERE WERE MORE IN THE THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE FOR WHATEVER
THAT&apos;S WORTH.
I THINK THAT YEAH, THAT THE THE
BRICK ISN&apos;T SO EVIDENT UNTIL
YOU GET UP CLOSE TO IT.
MAYBE AT LEAST WITH MY EYES
LIKE WALKING BY AND KIND
OF SQUINTING AS YOU WALK BY IF
YOU&apos;RE NOT LOOKING FOR ASBESTOS
BRICK LOOKING ASBESTOS OR NOT
ASBESTOS SORRY ASPHALT SIDING
IT JUST SORT OF LOOKS LIKE A
BROWN HOUSE.
IT THERE ARE THERE&apos;S NO OK LIKE
THE VINYL WILL HAVE THERE IS
BASICALLY NO DETAIL AT ALL
EXCEPT FOR A THERE&apos;S AN
INTERESTING CORNER PIECE OF THE
BRICK THAT I THINK IT&apos;S JUST
MORE OF THE SAME KIND OF GLUED
ONTO IT SO IT&apos;S SORT OF THE
CORNERS KIND OF STAND OUT AS
HAVING A BIT OF A SHADOW TO
THEM AND AND I THINK THAT THE
VINYL WELL I MEAN YOU CAN SEE
WHAT THE VINYL WILL LOOK LIKE.
&gt;&gt; THE VINYL WILL HAVE CLOSER.
SO I THINK OBVIOUSLY WITH HARDY
YOU CAN REALLY REPLICATE THE
HISTORIC DETAILS OF THE HOUSE
WITH THE VINYL YOU&apos;RE REALLY
NOT GETTING CLOSE BUT YOU&apos;RE IN
THE SAME BALLPARK WITH THE
BRICK.
IT JUST WASN&apos;T THERE AT ALL.
LIKE THERE&apos;S JUST NO DETAIL AT
ALL.
I THINK THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
WHAT I&apos;D LIKE.
YEAH.
I&apos;LL END THERE WITH THE REPORT
.
OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONERS
WITH THE APPLICANT EITHER
PLEASE STEP FORWARD OR THANK
YOU YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES
TO SPEAK IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING
YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD TO THE STAFF
REPORT REVIEW COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I KNOW YOU ALL MAY
THINK THIS IS A CUT AND DRY
ISSUE BUT LET&apos;S GET RIGHT TO
THE POINT.
I&apos;VE UPLOADED A STREAM PDF.
I HOPE EVERYBODY HAS IN FRONT
OF THEM AND THAT PDF DOCUMENT
FILE THERE SEVEN POINTS I&apos;D
LIKE TO COVER TO SUPPORT MY
VIEW THIS HOUSE NEEDS CITING IN
THE END I HOPE YOU AGREE SEVEN
TWENTY THREE MORE STREET A FEW
YEARS BACK THE SAME
RECONSTRUCTION USING SYNTHETIC
MATERIALS HAS BEEN APPROVED BY
THE BROADWAY HTC.
WE&apos;RE ASKING FOR THE SAME TYPE
VARIANTS TONIGHT IF THE DC
BOARD REQUIRES A TIER OFF AND
THEN A REBUILD OF THE MATERIALS
BELOW THAT WILL RESULT IN A
FIVE FACTOR DECREASE AND HEAT
LOSS FOR THIS HOUSE THAT&apos;S
NEGLIGIBLE.
THAT&apos;S DRAMATIC AND FOR YEARS
TO COME PLEASE SEE THE R VALUE
CALCULATION ON PAGE TWO.
ALSO DOING THAT WILL INCREASE
THE CARBON FOOTPRINT FOR
HEATING THIS HOME FOR YEARS TO
COME.
THAT&apos;S A FOCUS OF ALL THE
CITIZENS OF VANCOUVER TODAY.
RIGHT NOW THE BROADWAY LEERED
THEATER BAND DC AREA HAS A
DENSITY OF TWENTY THREE PERCENT
USE OF SYNTHETIC CITING
MATERIALS AGAIN MORE STREET WAS
APPROVED FOR THIS TYPE
OF INSTALLATION I PROBABLY ON
THIS PROPERTY FOR THIRTY FOUR
YEARS.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE IT THROUGH
TO ENSURE THE ARCHITECTURAL
DETAIL AND HISTORICAL
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS PROPERTY
WILL BE SAVED WITH THE SAME
BROWN COLOR DETAILING THE SAME
VINTAGE AREA OF LAMP BOARDS
KURIS FROM KLEINSCHMIDT IS A
WELL KNOWN SLIDING CONTRACTOR
QUALITY GUIDE USES QUALITY
MATERIALS AND I&apos;D LIKE TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH HIM USING THE JOB
HE CANNOT QUOTE ME HARDBOARD.
YOU CAN&apos;T DO THAT.
THE ONLY THING HE CAN DO IS DO
THE HAIR OFF AND FOAM AND THEN
CHARGE ME SIX THOUSAND DOLLARS
MORE DOING REALLY HARDLY
ANYTHING SYNTHETIC IS A PERFECT
WEATHERPROOF SOLUTION.
IT DOES BOTH WHETHER BRUCE THE
HOUSE WITH AN ADDITIONAL LAYER
OF OR VALUE MATERIAL AND
WATERPROOFS THE EXTERIOR WALLS
.
I&apos;M NOT ENLARGING ANY
FOOTPRINTS WE&apos;RE GOING TO
TOUCHIN ANY TRIM WE&apos;RE PRETTY
SURE BOUGHT I WON&apos;T SCALP THE
LEFT SIDE AND WON&apos;T SCALE UP
THE RIGHT SIDE.
I&apos;LL KEEP EVERYTHING I JUST
NEED THE SIDING.
I WON&apos;T DO ANY WINDOW
MODIFICATIONS.
&gt;&gt; THE SIDING IS THE SAME COLOR
AS IT IS NOW AND THE PEDIA
YOU&apos;LL SEE A MAP OF WHAT IT
WOULD LOOK LIKE UNLESS I GET
PAGE IN CONCLUSION EXIT SIGNS
OF ANN ARBOR.
PLEASE CONSIDER THE
CARBON FOOTPRINT AND MOVING
FORWARD WITH SAVING THE R VALUE
OF THIS HOME FOR FUTURE YEARS
COME AS A LAYMAN OF SORTS AND
ASK YOU FOR THIS TO GO THROUGH
I WISH YOU CONSIDER THE SEVEN
POINTS BEFORE YOU REACH WHICH
COULD BE PART A DECISION
BLOSSOM THANK YOU FOR YOUR
SUPPORT COMMISSIONER HERE.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
COMMISSIONER RACHLIN QUESTION
FOR YOU.
YES, I HEARD YOU GET VERY
EMOTIONAL THERE AND WE&apos;RE
HEARING THAT AND I APPRECIATE
YOU COMING BEFORE US TODAY AND
SHARING YOUR THOUGHTS.
I HAVE A VERY SIMPLE QUESTION
IS THE IS THE PROPOSED VINYL
SIDING SMOOTH OR DOES IT HAVE A
WOOD TEXTURE?
I&apos;LL MAKE SURE IT&apos;S SMOOTH.
I&apos;LL HAVE TO RIP DOWN BUT
SMOOTH OUT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW.
I HAVEN&apos;T EVEN LOOKED AT IT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW TO BE HONEST.
I DON&apos;T KNOW.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
YOU DON&apos;T THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S OK.
&gt;&gt; OTHER QUESTIONS I HAVE A
QUESTION SO IS THE INSTALL IS
THE INSULATION OF THE VINYL IS
IS YOUR CONTRACTOR IS HE
REMOVING ALL THE EXISTING
SIDING OR IS HE JUST ADDING THE
VINYL ON TOP OF THAT?
&gt;&gt; WELL APPARENTLY I&apos;M GOING TO
HAVE TO PULL OFF WHAT HE DID.
I DON&apos;T KNOW RIGHT NOW RIGHT.
I WAS GOING TO CONTINUE TO DO
THE SIDING AND NOT TOUCH ANY
FASCIA BOARDS, NO WINDOWS, NO
SCALP.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S OK.
SO THAT&apos;S NOT MY MY QUESTION.
SO IF THE SIDING THAT&apos;S
CURRENTLY INSTALLED THE VINYL
SIDING DID HE TAKE OFF DID YOUR
CONTRACTOR KNOW HE DID THAT IF
YOU WERE WRITING STUFF IN
QUESTION OR DID HE JUST JUST
SIMPLY ADD THE NEW SIDING ON
TOP OF WHAT&apos;S THERE NOW HE PUT
A LAYER TYVEK PAPER FOR AREA
MOISTURE BARRIER FIRST AND THEN
HE PUT THIS SIDING ON TOP OF IT
LIKE EVERY CONTRACTOR LEFT TO
DO THAT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
YEAH, WELL ONE OF THE PROBLEMS
I SEE IS HE BOUGHT THIS HOUSE
BEFORE IT WAS IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHERE THE REAL
PROBLEM COMES IN AND HE BOUGHT
IT WITH NINETEEN EIGHTY AT
NINETEEN EIGHTY SEVEN I BELIEVE
AND I THINK WE PUT YOU PUT IT
IN THE DISTRICT ONE WAS IT JOE
TWO THOUSAND AND NINE OR
TWELVE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH SO YOU KNOW HE BOUGHT
IT IT&apos;S NOT LIKE HE KNEW ABOUT
HISTORIC DISTRICT AT THE TIME
HE BOUGHT IT BECAUSE IT WAS A
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND NOW WE
WANT TO TRY THIS PROGRAM AND I
THINK THERE&apos;S SOME LENIENCY
HERE OR A VARIANT IN A SENSE
THAT HE&apos;S NOT TAKING ANYTHING
OFF THE ASPHALT.
BUT AS FAR AS IT IS, ERICA,
CELLULOSICS AND SO YOU JUST
WANT TO PUT THIS ON AND THEN I
HAVE THE PROBLEM IS HE BOUGHT
IT IN NINETEEN EIGHTY IF
RESIDENT HISTORIC DISTRICT
WE&apos;VE BEEN ABLE TO DO THAT AND
WE&apos;RE APPLYING THESE NEW RULES
NOW AND I JUST THINK THERE
SHOULD BE SOME TYPE OF VARIANCE
AND TRY TO TRY TO MAKE IT FIT
OUR NEEDS AS WELL AS CREATE A
VARIANCE FOR HIM BECAUSE YOU
TEAR DOWN THE ANY THIS HE
RAISES THE WHAT IS IT HEAVEY
THE OTHER FACTOR.
CORRECT.
AND HE&apos;S TRYING TO KEEP THIS IS
AS SEALED AS POSSIBLE.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTION FOR
THE YEAH.
I&apos;M GOING TO MOVE ON A PUBLIC
HEARING UNLESS THERE&apos;S ANY
OTHER COMMISSIONERS AND THEN WE
CAN GET INTO THE DISCUSSION.
SO I THINK THOSE ARE GOOD
POINTS TO DISCUSS.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU HAVE ANY OTHER DO YOU
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR I DIDN&apos;T
HAVE A QUESTION.
STATE COMMISSIONER, YOU CAN
HAVE A SEAT.
THANK YOU.
I DON&apos;T KNOW OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM THIS IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ON THIRTEEN SEVENTEEN BROADWAY
IS A REMINDER A PUBLIC COMMENT
MAY BE MADE BY CALLING EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND TERRENE
MEETING NINETY NINE SIX FIVE
THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN
SIX TWO.
AND JUST A REMINDER TO PRESS
STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE TO
INDICATE THAT YOU&apos;D LIKE TO
SPEAK MISS THATCHER TO EVEN
CALLERS NO ONE HAS INDICATED
FOR THIS ONE NOT CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION.
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THE APPLICATION?
MR. CARROLL, I CAN&apos;T I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT THIRTEEN
SEVENTEEN BROADWAY STREET
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
BROADWAY HISTORIC DISTRICT TO
INSTALL VINYL SIDING OVER
EXISTING ASPHALT SIDING AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE AND THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR SYNTHETIC
REPLACEMENT CITING SUPPORT BY
COMMISSIONER CANNO SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE FOR
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION THE
COMMISSIONER ROKO SURE.
OK WELL YEAH I MEAN I GUESS I
AM THINKING THAT THIS IS A
PROJECT THAT ISN&apos;T SO CUT AND
DRY IT I THINK IT&apos;S WORTH
LOOKING AT THE STANDARDS VERY
CLOSELY HERE BECAUSE I DON&apos;T
REALLY KNOW IF IT FITS ENTIRELY
WITHIN KIND OF A TYPICAL SITING
REPLACEMENT SINCE TECHNICALLY I
WOULDN&apos;T CALL IT SIDING REPLACE
LIKE THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES THE SECTION
THAT IS MOST APPLICABLE IS
SYNTHETIC REPLACEMENT CITING
NOT APPROPRIATE USING VINYL
SIDING TO REPLACE WOOD OR
SEMIOTICIAN SIDING.
SO THAT&apos;S NOT WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING.
WE&apos;RE USING VINYL THE PROPOSAL
IS TO USE VINYL SIDING TO
COVER UP EXISTING ASPHALT
SIDING SO I AGREE WITH THE
STATE.
I MEAN THE STANDARD IS THE
STANDARD.
SO THAT&apos;S WE CAN&apos;T DO THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT WHAT IS BEING PROPOSED
HERE ISN&apos;T EXACTLY THAT.
SO THEN I GO UP A LEVEL TO THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS AND JUST LOOKING
THROUGH ALL OF THOSE, IT&apos;S HARD
TO SAY WHERE THIS CROSSES THE
LINE INTO NOT APPROPRIATE
BECAUSE NO LIKE THE USE ISN&apos;T
CHANGING THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF A PROPERTY NO HISTORIC
MATERIALS ARE BEING REMOVED OR
ALTERED FOR THAT MATTER AS LONG
AS THE THE APPLICANT HAS SAID
AND I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU HAVE TO
CHANGE THE MOTION OR NOT BUT
THE SCALLOPING IS NOT GOING TO
BE COVERED UP SO THAT ONE SEEMS
OK.
YEAH SO AND THEN NUMBER TEN IT
CAN CERTAINLY I WOULD GUESS IF
IT&apos;S REMOVED IN THE FUTURE IT&apos;S
YOU&apos;RE ABLE TO REMOVE IT JUST
AS YOU&apos;RE ABLE TO REMOVE THE
EXISTING ASPHALT SO NONE OF THE
STANDARDS ARE SORT OF JUMPING
OUT.
I KNOW IT&apos;S UNUSUAL AND VINYL
ISN&apos;T ISN&apos;T A MATERIAL THAT
THAT WE TYPICALLY USE.
SO ANYWAY I&apos;M NOT SEEING IT.
I&apos;M VERY CURIOUS IF SOMEONE
ELSE IS SEEING THIS DIFFERENTLY
AND AND AND CAN YOU POINT TO A
STANDARD THAT THAT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
CLEARLY NOT APPROPRIATE BECAUSE
OF THIS STANDARD.
SO I HAVE A QUESTION, MOUSTAFA,
IF YOU DON&apos;T BRING UP THAT THE
GUIDELINE AROUND THE VINYL
SIDING SYNTHETIC.
&gt;&gt; SO WHEN I READ THIS I&apos;M NOT
READING IT LITERALLY TO WHERE
JUST LIKE VINYL SIDING IS THE
USE IS RESTRICTED ONLY IF IT&apos;S
OVER IF IT&apos;S MEANT TO REPLACE
WOOD SIDING.
I&apos;M READING IT AS VINYL SIDING
IS NOT APPROPRIATE PERIOD.
AND ACTUALLY THIS IS NOT THE
THE ONE YEAH YEAH.
USING THE I MEAN I&apos;M JUST
LOOKING AT THIS IS JUST LIKE
WHOEVER WROTE THIS WASN&apos;T
WASN&apos;T LIKE LOOKING AT THE
WHOLE GAMUT OF OF CITING THAT
COULD APPEAR IN THE DISTRICT&apos;S
BECAUSE TO ME I&apos;M LOOKING AT
THIS VINYL SIDING IS NOT AN
APPROPRIATE MATERIAL TO BE IN A
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN I CAN&apos;T IMAGINE THAT
IF WE HAD A HISTORIC HOUSE AND
I GUESS JUST AS AN ANALOG
YOU&apos;RE NOT REPLACING HISTORIC
WOOD WINDOW.
LET&apos;S SAY THERE&apos;S JUST LIKE NO
WINDOW IN THE OPENING.
WE WOULD NOT ALLOW A WINDOW ON
THAT OPENING SO I DON&apos;T LOOK
THIS MATERIAL IS APPROPRIATE AT
ALL, ESPECIALLY DUE TO THE AGE
OF THIS HISTORIC HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; AND I WOULD I WOULD HOPE
THAT IF THIS APPLICANT HAD COME
TO US, THE CONTRACTOR BEFORE
DURING THIS WORK WE WOULD LOOK
AT EITHER PARTY SIDING OR WOULD
SAY IF THERE IS NO ABILITY TO
REPLACE THE OR TO REPAIR THE
STORE WOOD SIDING UNDERNEATH.
I WOULD THINK THAT IF WE SEE A
SIDING THAT&apos;S INAPPROPRIATE OR
A SITUATION THAT&apos;S
INAPPROPRIATE, WE DON&apos;T WANT TO
REPLACE WITH SOMETHING THAT&apos;S
EQUALLY AS INAPPROPRIATE OR
EVEN MORE WE WANT WHO WE ARE.
WE&apos;RE STRIVING FOR SOMETHING
MORE APPROPRIATE, ESPECIALLY
DUE TO THE AGE AND I THINK THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS HOUSE I
THINK THAT THIS IS JUST WHAT&apos;S
TIPPING IT TIPPING THE
SITUATION MORE TOWARDS AN
INAPPROPRIATE SCENARIO.
SO I WON&apos;T BE SUPPORTING THIS
PROJECT.
SO IT&apos;S PRETTY DRY FOR ME.
I HAVE A QUESTION FOR THE TWO
FOR BOTH OF YOU.
IT WERE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
WERE THERE AT DIDN&apos;T SEEM LIKE
IT FROM THE PHOTOS BUT WERE
THERE ANY INDICATIONS
OF ADDITIONAL WHAT KIND OF TRIM
IS AROUND THE WINDOWS CURRENTLY
?
UM, I KNOW IT DOESN&apos;T LOOK LIKE
THERE&apos;S A TRADITIONAL TRIM LIKE
THAT THAT ASPHALT SIDING GOES
DIRECTLY RIGHT UP TO THE GO
WOOD WOOD TRIMMER WOODS AROUND.
IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT DIFFICULT TO
SEE FROM HERE.
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD STILL.
HMM.
I GUESS WHAT I&apos;M LOOKING AT IS
ALSO THE YOU KNOW, WE TOUCHED A
LITTLE BIT ON THE DETAIL ABOUT
THE VINYL TRIM AROUND THAT AND
THAT CHANGE IN WHERE YOU
HISTORICALLY SEE AND LIKE A ONE
SIDED HOME WHERE IT APPEARS
THIS HOME DID HAVE WOOD SIDING
UNDERNEATH THE ASPHALT THAT
THERE WOULD BE SOME KIND
OF WOOD TRIM AROUND THOSE
WINDOWS AS OPPOSED TO A YOU THE
WAY THAT IT&apos;S TURNED OUT
CURRENTLY.
BUT IT&apos;S HARD TO TELL IF THE
ADDITIONAL SURROUNDING IS PART
OF THE SASH JUST FROM THE
FENCE.
&gt;&gt; I DIDN&apos;T LOOK CLOSELY ENOUGH
AND I DON&apos;T REMEMBER BUT MAYBE
MAYBE THE HOMEOWNER CAN LET US
KNOW IF ALL THE TRIM AROUND THE
BAY WINDOW NO, JUST ALL OF THE
WINDOWS THAT WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT
THE ACTUAL SASHES AND THEN
AROUND THE SASHES IS THAT WOOD
OR IS THAT VINYL?
&gt;&gt; IS THAT THE WOOD?
EVERYTHING WHITE YOU SEE IS
WOOD.
OK, AROUND THE WINDOWS
EVERYTHING AND THAT&apos;S ALL WOOD
AND THEN ALL THE WINDOWS WOULD
BE TRIM THE SAME WAY THAT THEY
ARE CURRENTLY SHOWN WHERE THE
SIDING HAS BEEN INSTALLED.
IT&apos;S BEEN ETC. AND ALL THAT IS
A PRIORITY.
I MEAN IT&apos;S JUST A QUESTION SO
THAT THE WINDOWS THAT STILL
HAVE THE SHUTTERS REMAINING
WHAT WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO THE
SHUTTERS THOSE ARE BEING TOSSED
AGAINST PLASTIC SHUTTERS.
THEY&apos;RE DECORATIVE REALLY
THEY&apos;RE CHEAP PLASTIC SHUTTERS.
I THINK IT LOOKS BETTER WITHOUT
IT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW.
I PUT THEM BACK UP TO YOU.
YEAH, I AGREE WITH I THINK
COMMISSIONER I AGREE WITH BOTH
COMMISSIONER ROCKLIN AND
COMMISSIONER.
THIS IS A REALLY TRICKY I THINK
APPLICATION AND I DON&apos;T THINK
IT&apos;S CUT AND DRY.
&gt;&gt; UM, I AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN IN THE
SENSE THAT THE GUIDELINES ARE
CERTAINLY POINTING US TO A
CLEAR VINYL NOT APPROPRIATE
DOESN&apos;T CLEARLY STATE VINYL IS
NOT APPROPRIATE.
IT STATES VINYL IS NOT
APPROPRIATE TO REPLACE OVER TWO
TYPES OF SIDING ELSEWHERE IN
THE GUIDELINES.
IT DOES SAY THAT REPLACING WITH
EITHER RESTORING ORIGINAL
CITING ORIGINAL MATERIALS OR
REPLACING WITH APPROPRIATE
MATERIALS UM IS THE WAY TO MOVE
FORWARD NOW APPROPRIATE CAN BE
DEFINED YOU KNOW I THINK
THROUGHOUT TIME.
&gt;&gt; AND WHO I GUESS YOU KNOW A
CERTAIN CHARACTER, CERTAIN
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES.
RIGHT.
SO PART OF THE REASON WE ASK
FOR SEMANTICIST IS BECAUSE IT
CAN HAVE A IT CAN IT CAN LOOK
VERY MUCH LIKE WHAT YOU CAN GET
THE A SIMILAR PROFILE, SIMILAR
EXPOSURE IT HAS THE SMOOTH
TEXTURE IT HOLDS UP WELL OVER
TIME
.
&gt;&gt; VINYL HAS TYPICALLY NOT HAD
THOSE SAME CHARACTERIS I
BELIEVE THERE ARE NICER
QUALITIES OF VINYL THAN THERE.
YOU CAN FIND CHEAPER QUALITIES.
&gt;&gt; UM, I DO A I AGREE THAT
ADDING YOU KNOW, INSTALLING THE
VINYL SIDING IS A REMOVABLE
FEATURE.
IT DOES RETAIN THE HOUSE AS IT
IS.
IT DOESN&apos;T IT DOESN&apos;T
NECESSARILY DAMAGE ANY OTHER
FEATURES THAT EXISTING
CURRENTLY ESPECIALLY IF NONE
OF THE OTHER ORIGINALLY EXPOSED
ELEMENTS ARE COVERED UP.
&gt;&gt; YES.
IN FACT EVEN IF THEY WERE THEN
THEY WOULD STILL BE THERE BUT
THEY WOULD BE CONCEALED IN THAT
WE DEFINITELY WANT TO AVOID UM
BUT THEN THERE&apos;S ALSO THE FACT
THAT THERE&apos;S YOU KNOW, SOME
OF THIS IS EXPOSED AND NOW WE
KNOW WE CAN SEE WHAT&apos;S THERE.
I HAVE SOME CONCERNS ABOUT IF
THE EXISTING SIDING IS IN POOR
CONDITION AND IS WATERLOGGED
AND IS CONTINUING TO BE
ENCLOSED AND ENCLOSED EVEN
FURTHER.
DOES THAT HAVE IS THERE ANY
ADDITIONAL, YOU KNOW, ROT THAT
WOULD HAPPEN AS IT GETS TOTALLY
SEALED UP?
I&apos;M NOT PROBABLY HELPING THE
ENTIRE SITUATION BUT THESE ARE
KIND OF MY THOUGHTS AND THEN I
GUESS IT DOES LOOK LIKE THERE&apos;S
AN AIR GAP.
OK, SO I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T KNOW.
YOU KNOW, YOU&apos;RE RIGHT USUALLY
NOT HERE.
SO THAT&apos;S HELPING YOU RIGHT NOW
THAT YOU SAY THAT THERE IS
THERE&apos;S AT LEAST THERE&apos;S ONE
GUYS THAT ARE KEEPING THAT
SITE, YOU KNOW, SO I THINK
THAT&apos;S GOING TO CHANGE OR
SOMETHING.
I THINK THIS BRINGS UP A LARGER
TOPIC FOR THE COMMISSION AND AS
WE AS THE CAN HAVE STATED THAT
IN ANN ARBOR IS MOVING FORWARD
THAT THERE ARE A LOT
OF CONCERNS ABOUT THERMAL VALUE
OVER VALUE SUSTAINABLE HOMES.
I THINK THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WE NEED TO BE CONSIDERING MORE
OFTEN AND MAYBE UPDATE OUR
GUIDELINES TO BE MORE ROBUST.
WHAT MATERIAL REPLACEMENTS ARE
ALLOWED?
UM, AGAIN, I&apos;M I&apos;M A LITTLE BIT
ON THE FENCE AND I THINK THAT I
UNDERSTAND THE PREDICAMENT THAT
THE HOMEOWNERS IN AND I CAN SEE
IN THE GUIDELINES AS PRESENTED
THUS FAR THAT I THINK IT IS
ODDLY FITTING WITHIN THEM MAYBE
A LITTLE BIT MORE SO THAN NOT
SO THAT THAT&apos;S WHERE I STAND.
CAN I ASK TO AMEND THE MOTION
AT THIS POINT?
&gt;&gt; DID YOU MEMBER OR WHO GAVE
WAS IT CABINET OR ARE YOU
AMENABLE TO AMENDING THE MOTION
TO INCLUDE AS PROPOSED INSTEAD
OF AS PROPOSED?
IT&apos;S WITHOUT COVERING THE
SCALLOPS OR LEAVING HISTORIC
WOOD EXPOSED OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT?
YEAH, YEAH.
SO I READ THAT NOW ARE YOU
WILLING IF YOU&apos;RE WILLING TO
MAYBE STAFF HAZARD AND OFFER DO
WE NEED TO BE ARTICULATE WITH
OUR YES LET&apos;S BE CLEAR SO THAT
AMENDMENT WOULD SAY I MOVE THAT
THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE APPROPRIATENESS FOR
THE APPLICATION AT THIRTEEN
SEVENTEEN BROADWAY STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN
BROADWAY HISTORIC DISTRICT TO
INSTALL VINYL SIDING OVER
EXISTING ASPHALT SIDING WITHOUT
COVERING THE SCALPS AND LEAVING
HISTORIC WOOD TRIM EXPOSED AS A
CONDITION.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE EXTERIOR
DESIGN ETC.
DO ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS HAVE COME INTO IT
JUST I BASICALLY ECHOING YOUR
THE PREDICAMENT YOU JUST
DESCRIBED AND BECAUSE I ALSO
WAS WONDERING ABOUT THE YOU
KNOW TRAPPING ANY EXTRA
MOISTURE UNDER THERE AND
POTENTIALLY BEING CAUSING
FUTURE ISSUES UNKNOWN BECAUSE
THEY&apos;D BE COVERED UP.
BUT THEN I ALSO LOOK AT YOU
KNOW THE THE BEFORE AND AFTER
IMAGES THAT THE AFGHAN HAS
PROVIDED AND IN REALLY WOULD
YOU KNOW NOW AS AMENDED THE
MOTION AMENDED AND KEEPING THE
HISTORIC WOOD TRIM EXPO&apos;S NOT
COVERED UP.
YOU KNOW, IS THERE REALLY A
DIFFERENCE IN THE CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES AT THAT POINT
?
BUT I&apos;M STILL HUNG UP ON THIS
NOTION OF , YOU KNOW, ART NOT
THE LETTER OF THE GUIDELINES
BUT THE INTENT AND TIPPING THAT
SCALE.
I FEEL LIKE WE&apos;VE COME ACROSS A
NUMBER OF THOSE TYPES
OF APPLICATIONS RECENTLY AND I
DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT WOULD HELP
CLARIFY ALL OF THIS.
I KEEP LOOKING BACK AT THE
STANDARDS OR THE GUIDELINES AND
ALLOW
AS A SIDE NOTE I&apos;M ADDING
TO MY LIST FOR THE ANNUAL
RETREAT.
YEAH, THE DISCUSSION VINYL
ANOTHER SIDING AND OUR VALUES
AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
JUST
TAKING ANOTHER LOOK AT ANY
OF THE GUIDELINES OR ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS THAT HAVEN&apos;T HAD
ANY COMMENT.
DO THEY HAVE ANYTHING THAT
THEY&apos;D OR ARE WE READY FOR BUT
WE&apos;RE READY FOR A VOTE.
OK NOW ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
NO.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GOING TO DO A ROLL CALL
VOTE COMMISSIONER FORTNER NO
COMMISSIONER K.A. NO
COMMISSIONER ATKINSON.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WHITE.
YES, YES, YES.
NO EMOTION PASSES FOUR THREE.
OK, THANK YOU MR UM OK YOUR
MOTION CARRIES YOUR APPLICATION
HAS BEEN APPROVED BASED ON THIS
WHAT WAS IT AS CONDITION AS
CONDITION.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
PEOPLE ARE YOU KNOW THANK YOU.
YOU&apos;RE WELCOME ONTO ITEM TWO
THIRTEEN FORTY ONE TREVER
THAT&apos;S THE STUFF.
YES
.
OH SORRY
AS USUAL I FAMOUSLY
STARTED THE SLIDE SHOW OVER
AGAIN INSTEAD OF STARTING IT
FROM THE RIGHT PLACE.
OK TEAM FORTY ONE TRAVER ROAD
IS A CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE IN
A BROADWAY HISTORIC DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A TWO STORY COLONIAL
REVIVAL FIRST OCCUPIED BY
LAUREN AND ELAINE JAGGEDLY IN
NINETEEN FORTY LAUREN WAS A
BOOKKEEPER FOR SWIFT AND CO AND
THE HOUSE FEATURES A CENTER
ENTRY WITH A SIMPLE SHED ROOF
AND SYMMETRICAL FENESTRATION IN
2014 THE DC APPROVED A BACKYARD
SHED WHICH YOU WOULD SEE OFF TO
THE LEFT IN THIS PHOTO WITH A
PICKET FENCE ON THE WEST SIDE
OF TREVER SOUTH OF PIER STREET
AND THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO ADD A BACKYARD
GAZEBO ON A PAPER PATIO.
IN ONE MOMENT I WILL CHECK TO
SEE IF THE APPLICANTS ARE IN
THE SAME ROOM AND LET THEM IN
IF THEY ARE WATCHING.
SO LET&apos;S SEE THIS IS A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION
BEHIND THE HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S THIS EXISTING
TEMPORARY GAZEBO, YOU KNOW,
BITE IN A BOX AND SET IT UP AND
THE PROPOSAL IS TO ADD A LARGER
GAZEBO ON A PAVER PATIO AND I
REALLY APPRECIATE IT WHEN
OWNERS GO TO THE EFFORT TO MARK
IT OUT LIKE THIS BECAUSE IT
MAKES IT A LOT EASIER TO
ENVISION.
BUT THE GREEN LINE IS THE
EXTENT OF THE NEW PATIO AND
THIS IS NOT A REAL PATIO.
IT&apos;S THOSE IKEA WOOD OUTDOOR
PAVERS THAT AREN&apos;T REALLY
PAVERS THAT JUST RIGHT AWAY
AFTER A COUPLE OF YEARS
OUTDOORS AND HERE&apos;S HERE&apos;S THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS TRAILER DOWN HERE ON
THE BOTTOM.
THIS IS AN OLD DRAWING THAT
CAME INTO THE BACK OF THE SHED
AND THE THE FENCE FROM THE LAST
APPLICATION THAT I REMEMBER.
AND HERE&apos;S WHERE THE 12 BY 14
FOOT PATIO WITH A TEN BY TEN
FOOT GAZEBO WOULD BE BEHIND THE
HOUSE.
THE HOUSE IS SET BACK PRETTY
FAR FROM THE ROAD.
THIS IS BEHIND THE HOUSE.
IT&apos;S POSSIBLE THAT IF YOU&apos;RE
WAIT ON TRAVER YOU MIGHT SEE A
LITTLE BIT OF THE GAZEBO.
BUT I THINK FOR ALL PRACTICAL
PURPOSES IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
PRETTY NEARLY INVISIBLE FROM
THE STREET.
THESE ARE SOME 3D MODELS THAT
WERE PROVIDED BY THE APPLICANT
.
THE PAVERS, SIMPLE HOLON PAVERS
IN A KIND OF A COOL PATTERN AND
THIS IS THE GAZEBO.
IT IS COMES THE KIT.
YOU ASSEMBLE IT YOURSELF OR
HIRE SOMEONE TO PUT IT TOGETHER
FOR YOU.
IT&apos;S GOT A METAL ROOF.
THE REST OF THE CONSTRUCTION IS
CEDER TEN FEET BY TEN FEET
FROM
THE SECRETARY UP TO YOUR
STANDARDS.
I&apos;VE ALREADY READ TO ONE AND
TWO AND TEN FROM BUILDING SITE.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AN
OPEN SPACE.
I REALLY DON&apos;T THINK THAT AN
ONION WALLED GAZEBO LIKE THIS
WOULD CHANGE THAT RELATIONSHIP
FROM THE INTERIOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
NEW RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES.
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS AGAIN LOCATING SHEDS
AND GARAGES IN THE REAR YARD
AND USING EXTERIOR WALL AND
ROOF MATERIALS THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH HISTORIC
MATERIALS ON THE MAIN STRUCTURE
AND IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD THIS IS
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S SOLD AS A
TRADITIONAL GAZEBO.
IT&apos;S I THINK IT&apos;S KIND
OF MODERN LOOKING BEHIND THE
HOUSE.
I THINK EITHER ONE WOULD BE
FINE.
LET&apos;S SEE IF I HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD.
THERE ARE NO BELOW GRADE
FOOTERS THERE.
JUST THE POSTS ARE JUST
ANCHORED INTO THE PATIO PAVERS
AND STAFF BELIEVES THAT THE
APPLICATION IS APPROPRIATE THE
SIZE OF MATERIALS OF THE PATIO
AND GAZEBO AND THE LOCATION
STAFFORD APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. COMMISSIONER.
FRANKLIN AND ROSS, PLEASE GIVE
US YOUR REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT
.
YOU&apos;RE SO I PRETTY WELL KNOW
PRETTY MUCH I AGREE WITH
STAFF&apos;S ASSESSMENT OF THE
CONDITION OR THE CONDITIONS SO
THE CURRENT LITTLE GAZEBO
TEMPORARY GAZEBO THAT&apos;S THERE
RIGHT NOW, IT WASN&apos;T VISIBLE
FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY, YOU
KNOW, NOT IN THE BEST CONDITION
THE WAY THE THE HOUSE KIND
OF SITS ON THE LOT AND THEN
THERE&apos;S A LARGE KIND OF SIDE
YARD WITH A GARDEN AND A FENCE
.
IT&apos;S REALLY GOING TO BE SUPER
HARD OR JUST PRETTY MUCH
IMPOSSIBLE TO SEE THIS GAZEBO
FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY.
I FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S PROPERLY
SKILLED IN TERMS OF HEIGHTH THE
FOOTPRINT AND IT TO ME IT&apos;S
JUST A REALLY GOOD ALTERNATIVE
TO KIND OF TRYING TO BUILD
SOMETHING ON TOP OF THE HOUSE
OR BUILD LIKE A SEPARATE
BUILDING.
SO IT&apos;S LIKE RELATIVELY
TEMPORARY, NOT VISIBLE FROM
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY SOLUTION.
I THINK FOR THESE HOMEOWNERS TO
HAVE WHAT THEY NEED AND HAVE A
GOOD USE IN THE BACKYARD.
&gt;&gt; I THINK I&apos;M IN AGREEMENT
OF WHAT I&apos;VE HEARD.
I&apos;LL JUST POINT OUT THAT THE
SITE ITSELF IS UNIQUE TO WHAT
WE USUALLY SEE THE THE THE
FRONTAGE IS OVER ONE HUNDRED
FEET AND YET THE HOUSE IS
PUSHED OVER REALLY FAR TO ONE
SIDE SO MUCH SO THAT THE
NEIGHBOR&apos;S GARAGE ALMOST LOOKS
LIKE IT MIGHT BE THEIR GARAGE
AND IT&apos;S LIKE THE EVE OF THE
GARAGE IS LIKE RIGHT ON THEIR
PROPERTY LINE.
ALTHOUGH IF YOU LOOK A PROPERTY
LINE AS IT GOES BACK AWAY FROM
FROM TRAVER IT JOGS IN AND
MAYBE THAT&apos;S WHERE THE THE
NEIGHBOR&apos;S GARAGE IS.
MAYBE NOT.
BUT ANYWAY, IT&apos;S A UNIQUE SITE.
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A THERE&apos;S
EASEMENT ON THE ON FIRE ON THE
OPPOSITE SIDE OF THEIR
NEIGHBORS WHO MUST BE HEMMED IN
BY THEIR PROPERTY SO THAT THEY
CAN DRIVE THROUGH THEIR SITE
AND GET TO THE NEIGHBOR&apos;S HOUSE
THAT&apos;S BEHIND THEM.
SO THAT&apos;S THEIR DRIVE AS WELL.
AND A PARK KIND OF BEHIND WHERE
THE WHERE THE LITTLE SHED WAS
APPROVED IN IN THE PRIOR IN THE
PRIOR HEARING.
YEAH, THAT&apos;S IT.
THANK YOU IS ONLINE PLEASE ON
YOUR MICROPHONE TURN ON YOUR
VIDEO IF POSSIBLE AND PROVIDE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR I.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T THINK THEY&apos;RE THERE
.
&gt;&gt; NO I I DON&apos;T SEE THEM IN THE
ZOOMER SO SO WE&apos;LL MOVE ON TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING PORTION.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION.
THIRTEEN FORTY ONE TRAVER
PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE MADE BY
CALLING EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTERING MEETING NINETY
NINE SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX
NINE NINE SEVEN SIX TWO.
IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO COMMENT PLEASE
PRESS START ON IN YOUR PHONE
OK
.
OH NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC PORTION
IS THERE COMMISSIONER I&apos;D LIKE
TO MAKE A MOTION TO THE
COMMISSIONER FOR I KNEW THAT
THE COMMISSION ISSUED WAS FOR
THE APPLICATION AT THIRTEEN
FORTY ONE TRAMER A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY RODWAY HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ADD A TEN BY TEN
YEARS AGO ON A TWELVE BY
FOURTEEN PAPER FABIO AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
AN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
,MATERIALS AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HOUSE AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND NEEDS THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
AREAS INDEX AND RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATE
HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE, TWO
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING CIRCA BY COMMISSIONER
FAULKNER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE.
ANY DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION I
THINK IS VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
IT&apos;S TOTALLY REMOVABLE.
I THINK IT&apos;S A NICE LITTLE
FEATURE FOR THE BACKYARD FOR
THE REAR YARD.
YEAH.
I THINK LIKE I SAID I THINK
IT&apos;S A PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
SO ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES THE
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED
NOW ONTO ITEM F THREE ONE
TWENTY ONE CREST ON THE STATUTE
OF THE STAFFORD
ONE TWENTY ONE
CREST IS IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT SO ONE AND
THREE QUARTER STOREY GABLE
FRONTON FEATURING THREE OR FOUR
ONE AND FOUR OVER ONE WINDOWS
EXPOSED AFTER TALE&apos;S AROUND
ATTIC WINDOW IN THE FRONT GABAL
A FULL SHED ROOF FRONT PORCH
WITH TAPERED SQUARE HALF
COLUMNS AND A SOLID WALL CLAD
WITH SIDING TO MATCH THE HOUSE
TO THE NORTHEAST CORNER
OF CREST AVENUE AND WEST
WASHINGTON STREETS.
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO ADD A TWO STOREY
REAR EDITION ROTATE THE GARAGE
TO FACE SOUTH INSTEAD WEST AT A
NEW ASPHALT DRIVEWAY AND CURB
CUT AND ADD AN AIR CONDITIONING
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
ALL RIGHT.
HERE&apos;S THE HOUSE TODAY
.
WELL, WE&apos;RE GOING TO JUMP RIGHT
ALMOST ALL THE WAY AROUND TO
THE BACK EXCUSE ME AT THE
REVIEW SITE VISIT WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT NEARLY ALL OF THE
WINDOWS IN THIS HOUSE APPEAR TO
BE ORIGINAL.
MOST OF THEM ARE THREE OVER ONE
I THINK A COUPLE OF THEM ARE
FOR OVER ONE.
THE EXCEPTION IS THESE THREE
WINDOWS HERE WE WERE
SPECULATING THAT THAT THIS MAY
HAVE BEEN A PORCH THAT WAS
ENCLOSED.
THE OWNER SAID THAT IT&apos;S THE
CONSTRUCTION IS A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT ON THE INSIDE OF THIS
AREA AND THESE WINDOWS AREN&apos;T
THE SAME PROPORTION ARE THE
SAME TYPE OR ANYTHING.
SO THEY WERE PROBABLY ADDED
LATER THERE&apos;S ANOTHER PHOTO
OF THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
THERE&apos;S JUST A TINY LITTLE
STOOP LANDING.
THERE WAS SOME STEPS GOING DOWN
.
HERE&apos;S THE VIEW ALONG WEST
WASHINGTON STREET AND THE
GARAGE IS IN THE BACK CURRENTLY
FACING TOWARD CREST THE THERE
IT IS AGAIN.
THE DRIVEWAY IS ON THE CREST
SIDE OF THE HOUSE RIGHT NOW.
THEY&apos;RE NOT USING IT.
IT COULD GO ALL THE WAY THROUGH
BUT IT DOESN&apos;T.
THERE&apos;S JUST A PARKING SPACE
HERE BEHIND THE FRONT WALL.
THE HOUSE AND YOU CAN SEE THE
TRASH CANS AND STUFF ARE STORED
HERE.
SO THE GARAGE ISN&apos;T CURRENTLY
USED FOR A CAR FOR A VEHICLE
STORAGE
.
THE PROPOSAL IS TO ADD A TWO
STORY ADDITION OFF THE BACK THE
HOUSE THE REAR CORNERS ARE
INSET AND THEN THERE&apos;S A DECK
BEHIND THE TWO STOREY ADDITION
.
ALSO THE GARAGE IS PROPOSED TO
BE TURNED FROM FACING CREST TO
FACING INSTEAD ON WEST
WASHINGTON AND THIS IS A NEW
PROPOSED ASPHALT DRIVEWAY WHEN
WE&apos;RE OUT THERE ON THE SITE
THERE&apos;S A BIG TREE BIG STREET
TREE RIGHT ABOUT WHERE THIS
DRIVEWAY IS PROPOSED.
BUT YOU KNOW, SO IT WOULD HAVE
A LITTLE JOG IN IT BUT IT&apos;S NOT
SEVERELY OFF.
THIS IS THE FIRST FLOOR PLAN
THERE ARE I DIDN&apos;T INCLUDE ALL
THE FLOOR PLANS IN HERE BUT I
THINK THAT THE REST OF THEM ARE
IN THE PACK.
IT&apos;S PRETTY SIMPLE.
THIS IS A NINE AND A QUARTER
INCH SET BACK ON THE NORTH
CORNER AND ON THE SOUTH CORNER
HERE.
IT&apos;S ALSO NINE AND A QUARTER.
ALL RIGHT.
THE EXISTING IS UP TOP HERE.
THIS WOULD BE THE NORTH
ELEVATION.
THESE ARE THOSE NON ORIGINAL
WINDOWS THAT I MENTIONED.
THEY&apos;RE PROPOSED TO ACTUALLY
STAY BUT THE ONES AROUND THE
CORNER ON THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
WOULD BE REMOVED.
&gt;&gt; SO THE THE THE ADDITION IS
IS ALSO ONE AND A HALF STORIES.
IT HAS SOME IT&apos;S I&apos;M NOT EVEN
SURE HOW TO DESCRIBE THIS BUT
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE ARE TRIM
PIECES THAT COME DOWN
TO TO TO
MIMIC THE LIKE THE GABLE PITCH
AND YOU CAN SEE THAT THIS ROOF
SURFACE IS ALSO LOWER THAN THE
EXISTING RIDGE AND THEN IT
BUMPS BACK UP WHEN YOU GET TO
THIS SORT OF FAUX WILDOMAR IT&apos;S
JUST THE WALL.
IT&apos;S NOT REALLY A DORMER BUT
THE TRIM MAKES IT LOOK A LITTLE
BIT MORE DHAMAR AND A LITTLE
LESS JUST STRAIGHT UP AND DOWN
AN IMPOSING ALSO ON THAT SAME
ELEVATION YOU COULD SEE HERE IS
STAIRS GOING DOWN TO AN EGRESS
DOOR THAT IS BELOW GRADE.
I BELIEVE THERE&apos;S A WINDOW OVER
THERE TO AND THERE&apos;S THE DECK
ON THE BACK.
ALL RIGHT.
HERE&apos;S WHAT THE REAR ELEVATION
WOULD LOOK LIKE RIGHT NOW
THERE&apos;S JUST THESE TWO LITTLE
WINDOWS THEY WOULD BE REPLACED
BY THIS ADDITION.
HERE&apos;S THE THIS IS THIS IS TRIM
TO TO MAKE THIS APPEAR TO BE
MORE LIKE THE EXISTING CABLE
WHICH IS APPRECIATED THE IS
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT BUT NOT A
LOT.
THERE ARE TWO WINDOWS UPSTAIRS
ON THE ADDITION FACING BACK
THEY ARE THREE OVER ONE THERE
ALONE I BELIEVE IT&apos;S ONLY ONE
I&apos;M GLAD THEY&apos;RE CLAD WINDOWS
AND THE TRIM IS BORRELL ON THE
ADDITION NOT WOOD AND THE
SIDING IS SEVENTY SIX IT&apos;S
SEVEN INCH EXPOSURE ALSO TO
DISTINGUISH IT FROM THE
HISTORIC HOUSE THIS IS PRETTY
THIN EXISTING SIDING I THINK
THREE INCH EXPOSURE IS ABOUT AS
NARROW AS WE SEE AROUND HERE
AND THEN MOVING AROUND TO THE
SOUTH SIDE I SHOULD CLARIFY IS
JUST A PIECE OF TRIM TO SORT
OF ACCENTUATE THE DIFFERENT
PARTS OF THAT&apos;S NOT A VERY
ELEGANT WAY TO DESCRIBE BUT YOU
GET WHAT I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT.
AGAIN, THESE ARE DIVIDED LIGHT
WINDOWS NOT TRUE DIVIDED LIGHTS
BUT YOU KNOW THE SANDWICH WITH
SPACERS IN BETWEEN WHEN THIS
WAS ORIGINALLY PROPOSED THESE
WERE JUST ONE OVER ONE WINDOWS
AND BETWEEN THE ONE OVER ONE
WINDOWS AND THE WIDE SIDING AND
A TALLNESS OF THE ENTIRE
EDITION IT IT REALLY DIDN&apos;T
LOOK RIGHT TO ME AND I
RECOMMENDED THAT THEY GO WITH
THE DIVIDED LIKE WINDOWS TO TIE
IT BACK IN TO THE HOUSE A
LITTLE BETTER.
IF THIS WERE NOT ON A CORNER
LOT I PROBABLY WOULDN&apos;T CARE.
BUT SINCE THIS IS WHAT YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO SEE WHEN YOU&apos;RE
WALKING DOWN THE SIDEWALK ON
WEST WASHINGTON, THE WHOLE
THING JUST GAVE OFF A LITTLE
BIT TO MODERN VIBE AND I THINK
THAT BY ADDING IN THESE DIVIDED
LIGHTS IT HELPS IT RELATE BACK
TO THE HOUSE A LITTLE BETTER
AGAIN, THERE&apos;S DECK ON THE
BACK.
THE DECK IS IS IS TREX OR YOU
KNOW, WOOD IMITATION WOOD
MATERIAL.
THE GUARDRAIL IS METAL.
IT SAYS METAL GUARDRAIL WITH A
TWO BY FOUR COMPOSITE CAP.
SO THE DECKING WOULD PROBABLY
MATCH THE COMPOSITE DECKING IS
WHAT I&apos;M THINKING HERE AND
THESE ARE THE CHANGES FROM THE
FRONT YOU CAN SEE OFF IN THE
DISTANCE THIS IS THE ROOFLINE
OF THE ADDITION.
OBVIOUSLY YOU WOULD NEVER
REALLY SEE THIS VIEW UNLESS YOU
ARE STANDING SMACK DAB IN FRONT
OF THE HOUSE AND NOT ON THE
SIDEWALK.
BUT IT DOES ADD A COUPLE OF YOU
KNOW, DOOR MORE LIKE WINGS
THERE ON THE BACK.
THERE&apos;S INFORMATION ON THE
WINDOWS IN THE PACKET THAT I
DIDN&apos;T COPY OVER.
THERE&apos;S INFORMATION ON THE
SENATORSHIP SIDING THE HARDY
PLANT FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS.
I&apos;VE READ TO YOU TO FIVE AND
NINE AND 10 ALREADY FROM THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR A
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORIES
STRUCTURES IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO
MAINTAIN AND RESTORE HISTORIC
BARNS GARDENS, GARAGES, SHEDS,
TRELLISES AND OTHER ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES TO MATCH THE
HISTORIC MATERIALS AND
CONFIGURATION.
IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE TO ALTER
GARAGES BY USING MATERIALS
CONFIGURATION AND DESIGNS THAT
DO NOT MATCH THE EXISTING OR
HISTORIC APPEARANCE FOR PAVED
AREAS.
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE ON RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN EXISTING HISTORIC
DRIVEWAYS AND CURB CUTS
INCLUDING TRACK DRIVEWAYS AND
GREEN SPACE BETWEEN THE
DRIVEWAY AND THE HOUSE REALIZED
THAT THE DRIVEWAY IS NOT
CURRENTLY PAVED BUT THIS IS THE
CLOSEST STANDARD THAT WE HAVE
TO ADDRESS DRIVEWAYS IN GENERAL
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO
CONSTRUCT A NEW ADDITIONS THAT
ARE THE LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS.
SO CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
ARE NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED TO LOCATE EXTERIOR
ADDITIONS AT THE REAR OR AN
INCONSPICUOUS SIDE AND LIMITING
ITS SIZE SCALE RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HISTORIC BUILDING ALSO
DESIGNING NEW ADDITIONS IN A
MANNER THAT MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS
HISTORIC AND WHAT IS NEW.
ALSO RECOMMENDED IS DESIGNING
ADDITIONAL STORIES WHEN
REQUIRED FOR THE NEW USE THAT
ARE SET BACK FROM THE WALL
PLAIN AND ARE AS INCONSPICUOUS
AS POSSIBLE WHEN VIEWED FROM
THE STREET NOT RECOMMENDED AS
DESIGNING A NEW EDITION.
WHAT SIZE AND SCALE ARE OUT
OF PROPORTION IN RELATION TO
THE HISTORIC BUILDING THUS
DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OR DUPLICATING THE
EXACT FORM MATERIALS AND
DETAILING OF THE HISTORIC
BUILDING IN THE NEW ADDITIONS
THAT THE NEWARK APPEARS TO BE
PART OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING
FROM THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES IT&apos;S
NOT APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN AN
ADDITION THAT OVERPOWERS OR
DRAMATICALLY ALTERS THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING THROUGH SIZE
OR HEIGHT.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
LET ME GO BACK UP AND GIVE YOU
SOME STAFF COMMENTS NOW THAT
WE&apos;RE THROUGH THIS.
ALL RIGHT.
FOR THE ADDITIONS, THE HOUSE IS
CURRENTLY FOURTEEN HUNDRED AND
TWENTY ONE SQUARE FEET.
THE PROPOSED ADDITION IS FORTY
NINE PERCENT OF THE ORIGINAL
AND THE FOOTPRINT IS FIFTY
PERCENT OF THE ORIGINAL.
SO THEY ARE RIGHT AT THE
MAXIMUM RECOMMENDED SIZES THE
ROOF RIDGE I WANTED TO POINT
OUT AND GET COMMISSIONER
FEEDBACK JUST BECAUSE IT&apos;S SORT
OF NEW ISH AND I&apos;D LIKE TO KNOW
HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT IT.
SO THE ROOF RIDGE IS HERE AND
WE ASK THAT THE ROOF RIDGE BE
DROP BELOW THE EXISTING RIDGE
AND BELOW ANY TRIM BOARDS THAT
MIGHT BE APPLIED THERE AND THEN
THIS ONE POPS BACK UP, DOESN&apos;T
POP UP ALL THE WAY IS HIGH.
IT&apos;S STILL LIKE FOUR AND A HALF
INCHES SHORTER HERE THAN IT IS
UP HERE.
BUT I&apos;D JUST LIKE TO GET YOUR
THOUGHTS ON WHETHER THAT IS
MEETING THE SPIRIT OF DROPPING
THE ROOF LINE OR WHETHER THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT IT IS
STILL LOWER AND I ALSO
APPRECIATE THAT ON SOME
OF THESE HOUSES IT&apos;S REALLY
HARD TO GET THE REQUIRED HEAD
ROOM UNLESS YOU GET CREATIVE.
BUT THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT YOU
GUYS CAN TALK ABOUT IN A MINUTE
.
ANOTHER THING THAT I WANT TO
ASK YOU ABOUT IS WHETHER IT&apos;S
APPROPRIATE TO HAVE CLADDING ON
YOUR ADDITION THAT&apos;S MORE THAN
TWICE AS WIDE AS YOUR SIDING.
IT DEFINITELY DISTINGUISHES IT
BUT THAT&apos;S I&apos;M NOT SAYING IT&apos;S
TOO WIDE BUT I&apos;M A LITTLE BIT
ON THE FENCE ABOUT WHETHER IT&apos;S
TOO REAR DECK IS COMPOSITE
MATERIALS WITH A METAL
GUARDRAIL.
I&apos;M OK WITH THAT.
IT&apos;S BEHIND AN ADDITION.
IF THIS WERE JUST BEHIND
SOMETHING THAT WAS A LITTLE
MORE TRADITIONAL LOOKING, IT
MIGHT BE DIFFERENT AND I MIGHT
WANT IT TO BE A LITTLE MORE
PORCH LOOKING BUT IT&apos;S NOT A
PORCH.
IT&apos;S A DECK AND WELL I SAID AND
HERE&apos;S THE LOCATION IS OUT
OF SIGHT.
IT&apos;S ACTUALLY NOT OUT OF SIGHT
AT ALL.
IT&apos;S COMPLETELY VISIBLE FROM
WEST WASHINGTON STREET BUT I
STILL THINK IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE AS
PART OF THE ADDITION AND THAT
PART OF THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE
MOVING ON TO THE GARAGE
ROTATION AND DRIVEWAY A CURB
CUT SO THE GARAGE DOES APPEAR
ON SANDBORN FIRE INSURANCE MAPS
AND NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN AERIAL
PHOTOS.
SO IT IS A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE.
LET&apos;S SEE SO ROTATING THE
GARAGE AND ADDING A NEW
DRIVEWAY IS NOT COMPATIBLE WITH
AZAWI STANDARD NUMBER TWO WHICH
SAYS THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF A PROPERTY WILL BE RETAINED
AND PRESERVED.
THERE ARE ALSO DESIGN
GUIDELINES THAT ADDRESS THIS
THAT SAY THAT THE CONFIGURATION
OF THE GARAGE SHOULD NOT BE
CHANGED FROM WHAT IT WAS
HISTORICALLY.
IT WOULD ALSO ALTER IT WOULD
ALSO ADD A NEW DRIVEWAY AND I
DON&apos;T THINK I HAVE A GOOD
PHOTOGRAPH OF THAT BUT IT WOULD
CHANGE.
YOU KNOW, THE APPEARANCE FROM
THE STREET TO HAVE ANOTHER
DRIVEWAY GOING OFF OF WEST
WASHINGTON THERE IS A ON THE
DRAWING THERE IS THAT THE
EGRESS STAIR PROPOSED HERE AND
A PROPOSED AC CONDENSER AND YOU
CAN CORRECT ME IF I&apos;M WRONG
WHEN IT&apos;S THEIR CHANCE IN A SEC
TO SPEAK BUT THEY WERE
INDICATING THAT BECAUSE
OF THESE IF THE DRIVEWAY
DOESN&apos;T GET DRIVEWAY, IF THE
GARAGE DOESN&apos;T GET ROTATED AND
A NEW DRIVEWAY ADDED, THEY&apos;LL
JUST KEEP THIS STUFF RIGHT HERE
AND AND AND NOT TRY TO PUSH THE
DRIVEWAY THROUGH BECAUSE THEY
WANT TO BUILD OTHER THINGS
WHERE THAT DRIVEWAY WOULD HAVE
TO BE IF YOU WERE GOING TO TRY
TO PUT A CAR IN IT IF IT&apos;S NOT
ROTATED.
SO LET&apos;S SEE, THE AC UNIT IS
FINE.
OH, THE HOUSE HAS HALF ROUND
GUTTERS SO THE PROPERTY OWNER
WOULD NEED TO MAINTAIN OR APPLY
FOR STAFF APPROVAL TO REPLACE
THEM WITH MATCHING GUTTERS FROM
GUTTERS ARE REALLY COOL AND I
ALSO KNOW THAT THE FRONT STEPS
IN THE HANDRAIL APPEAR TO BE IN
POOR CONDITION.
I CAN OPEN IT UP IF YOU WANT TO
SEE IT BUT I DID RECEIVE AFTER
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE VISIT A
DRAWING OF THE FRONT STAIRS
BEING REPLACED WITH NEW STAIRS
WITH CLOSED RISERS THAT ARE
MORE APPROPRIATE TO THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND A VERY
SIMPLE HANDRAIL YOU KNOW LIKE
THAT ONE BUT NICER LOOKING.
IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT I WOULD
TOTALLY I&apos;VE ALREADY REVIEWED
IT.
I WOULD TOTALLY STAFF APPROVE
IT IS PART OF THIS APPLICATION
IT.
THOUGH.
IT IS PART OF THIS APPLICATION
AND SO IF YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO SEE
THAT DRAWING I CAN OPEN IT UP
BUT I CAN ALSO IT IS IN
REGISTAR AND PART OF THE PACKET
NOW Y MIGHT EVEN HAVE IT YOU
MIGHT EVEN BE ABLE TO GET TO
IT.
BUT I DO WANT TO ASSURE YOU
THAT IT&apos;S VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD
AND VERY APPROPRIATE.
LET&apos;S SEE.
SO I HAVE SUGGESTED TWO MOTIONS
FOR YOU TO CONSIDER.
ONE IS FOR THE ADDITION AND AND
THE DECK IN THE AIR
CONDITIONING UNIT AND THE OTHER
IS FOR THE GARAGE AND THE
DRIVEWAY IN CASE YOU WANT TO
CONSIDER THEM SEPARATELY WHEN
YOU&apos;RE AFTER AFTER YOU&apos;VE GONE
THROUGH YOUR DISCUSSION.
SO I DO RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF THE ADDITION AIR CONDITIONER
AND AND DECK AND I DO NOT
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF ROTATING
A GARAGE AND PUTTING IN A NEW
DRIVEWAY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. COMMISSIONERS
RECOMMENDED ROSS WE PLEASE GIVE
YOUR REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
OKAY.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT SO YEAH, THIS
HOUSE IS YOU KNOW IT&apos;S LIKE
READY FOR A RENOVATION BUT BUT
IT&apos;S NOT SO FAR GONE, YOU KNOW,
LIKE IT REALLY HAS A LOT
OF CHARACTER INTACT.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN IT REALLY HAS
PROBABLY MOST OF ITS ORIGINAL
HISTORIC CHARACTER INTACT.
IT JUST MAYBE NEEDS TO BE
SCRAPED, PRIMED AND PAINTED IN
IT BECAUSE IT&apos;S ALL THERE.
YOU KNOW, IT REALLY IS A GOOD A
GOOD HOUSE FOR THIS PROJECT AND
I THINK THAT LET&apos;S SEE JUST THE
I GUESS JUST SOMETHING TO THINK
ABOUT IS THE FACT THAT IT&apos;S A
CORNER LOT IN THESE CORNER
PROJECTS ARE VERY TRICKY AND
IT&apos;S VISIBLE FROM YEAH.
&gt;&gt; FROM WASHINGTON AND FROM
KRASTEV AND THE DO WE HAVE A
PICTURE OF THE GARAGE OK YEAH.
SO THE GARAGE HAS YEAH.
THE SWINGING DOORS AND IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S KIND OF NICELY PLACED AT
THE MOMENT IN THE BACK CORNER
THERE WHEN THERE&apos;S THE ADDITION
YOU KNOW THE ADDITIONS WILL BE
THE ADDITIONS PLUS THE DECK
IT&apos;S GETTING CLOSE NOW TO THAT
THAT CORNER THAT EXISTING
CORNER ALTHOUGH I WONDER WHAT
THAT DIMENSION IS BUT ANYWAY SO
THAT&apos;S JUST SOMETHING TO THINK
ABOUT WITH THE GARAGE.
COMMISSIONER ROSS I GUESS I
DON&apos;T HAVE MUCH MORE TO ADD.
I&apos;M JUST INTERESTED TO HEAR
WHAT THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
SAY.
I MEAN TO KIND OF REITERATE
COMMISSIONER ROCKLANDS POINT
THE ARTIST IT&apos;S THE BACKYARD
NOT SO BIG NOW.
&gt;&gt; SO ONCE THAT ADDITION IS
CONSTRUCTED AND THEN YOU KNOW
THE DECK IS PROJECTING OUT AND
THEN ALSO KIND OF PROJECTING
OUT ON THE SIDE IT IS GOING TO
BE A PRETTY TIGHT FIT AND I
WOULD ALMOST FEAR THAT WITHOUT
THE GARAGE BEING USED.
I YOU KNOW, JUST IN MY
EXPERIENCE IN THE WORLD THE
BEST WAY TO PRESERVE A BUILDING
IS ACTUALLY PUT IT INTO USE.
SO MY FEAR WOULD BE THAT IF
IT&apos;S TOO TIGHT INTO TO KIND
OF CRANBERG THERE THAT THE
GARAGE WOULD JUST IN ITS
CURRENT LOCATION WOULD NOT GET
USED AND PROBABLY WOULD END UP
FALLING DOWN.
&gt;&gt; BUT BUT YEAH YEAH.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD JUST BE MORE
INTERESTED IN DISCUSSING WITH
THE REST OF THE COMMISSIONERS
THE PROJECT.
THANK YOU IS AT PRESENT.
YEAH.
&gt;&gt; WOULD YOU PLEASE STEP
FORWARD AND STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD AND YOU HAVE FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK IF YOU&apos;D LIKE
TO ADD ANYTHING TO THE STAFF
REPORT OR REVIEW COMMITTEE CAN
YOU GET EVEN?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS BONNIE GRINSPOON AND
I AM THE ARCHITECT AND MY
CLIENT THE HOMEOWNER IS ROBERT
JUST BEHIND ME AS STATED THE
HOUSE JUST OVER FOURTEEN
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET ON TWO
FLOORS AND IT IS CURRENTLY TWO
BEDROOMS, ONE BATHROOM ON THE
SECOND FLOOR THERE IS ONE
BATHROOM IN THE BASEMENT
HOWEVER FROM A LEGAL STANDPOINT
FROM A CODE STANDPOINT I WOULD
NOT CONSIDER THAT TO BE ILLEGAL
BATHROOM THE HOUSE HAS BEEN
OWNED BY THE PREVIOUS OWNER FOR
FIFTY YEARS AND HAS QUITE
LITERALLY BEEN TOUCHED FOR
FIFTEEN YEARS AND SO NOT TO
CONTRADICT YOUR STATEMENT ABOUT
JUST RIP JUST A NEW FRESH
COAT OF PAINT ONE OF THE PHOTOS
THAT WAS SHOWN AT THE NORTHWEST
CORNER WHERE WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT THE SCREEN A PORCH THAT
MIGHT HAVE THAT MIGHT HAVE ONCE
BEEN A PORCH THAT HAS NOW BEEN
ENCLOSED.
THE WOOD IS QUITE ROTTED IN
THAT LOCATION AND WOULD
OBVIOUSLY NEED TO BE REPAIRED
AT THAT LOCATION AMONG MANY
OTHER PLACES IN THIS HOUSE
AROUND THIS HOUSE.
SO THE HOUSE IS CURRENTLY TWO
BEDROOMS UPSTAIRS AND ONE
BATHROOM AND THAT ONE BATHROOM
BY CODE IS AGAIN NOT LEGAL
BECAUSE THE ROOF IS SO STEEP
THAT IT LIMITS HAD ROOM IN
QUITE A LARGE MAJORITY OF THAT
BATHROOM.
SO FROM A CODE STANDPOINT
OF CURRENT BUILDING
CODE STANDPOINT, MOST OF THE
FIXTURE CLEARANCES WOULD NOT BE
WOULD NOT PASS THE BASEMENT
CONTAIN ILLEGAL LEGAL BEDROOM
BECAUSE THERE WAS AN EGRESS
WINDOW ADDED AT SOME POINT IN
TIME.
WE&apos;RE NOT SURE WHEN THAT WAS
ADDED BUT IT&apos;S CLEARLY A LARGE
WINDOW THAT IS NOT ORIGINAL TO
THE HOUSE AND SO WE ARE
PROPOSING TO INCREASE THE FLOOR
AREA BY JUST UNDER 50 PERCENT
WHICH WOULD ADD A MASTER SUITE
ON THE SECOND FLOOR SO
BASICALLY CREATING THREE
BEDROOMS ON THE SECOND FLOOR TO
BATHROOMS AND SOME CLOSETS NOT
A GRAND SUITE BUT THERE IT WILL
BE CONSIDERED A MASTER SUITE
BECAUSE IT WOULD HAVE ITS OWN
BATHROOM AND WE ARE ADDING A
HALF BATHROOM ON THE MAIN
FLOOR.
THERE&apos;S CURRENTLY NO BATHROOM
ON THE MAIN FLOOR WHERE I&apos;LL
TALK ABOUT THE GARAGE WE ARE
PROPOSING ROTATE THE GARAGE
NINETY DEGREES WHICH WOULD TURN
IT FROM FACING AN OPENING
TOWARDS CREST WE WOULD FACE
SOUTH TOWARDS WASHINGTON BY
DOING THIS LET&apos;S SAY WE WERE
ABLE TO ACCESS THE GARAGE.
IT IS AS IT IS CURRENTLY
LOCATED THAT WOULD MEAN IF WE
WERE TO PAVE THE DRIVEWAY TO
THE GARAGE THAT WOULD ENTAIL A
DRIVEWAY THAT&apos;S ABOUT 692
SQUARE FEET OF IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE BY ROTATING GARAGE WE
REDUCE THAT NUMBER BY ABOUT ONE
THIRD SO IT TAKES A 692 SQUARE
FOOT DRIVEWAY AND REDUCES IT
DOWN TO TWO HUNDRED AND THIRTY
SEVEN SQUARE FEET WHICH IS A
GREAT ADVANTAGE ON A SMALL SITE
WHEN WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH
STORMWATER IN ITS CURRENT STATE
THE FLOOR OF THE GARAGE MAY
HAVE ONCE BEEN A CONCRETE SLAB
BUT BECAUSE THE GRADING FROM
CHRIS DOWN TO THE FLOOR OF THE
GARAGE DOWN TOWARDS THE
GARAGE, A LOT OF WATER HAS RUN
DOWN IN THAT DIRECTION INTO THE
GARAGE, DEGRADED THE SLAB.
THERE ISN&apos;T MUCH LEFT OF IT.
MY FRIEND WOULD LIKE TO PUT A
SLAB IN THE GARAGE WHICH MEANS
ESSENTIALLY LIFTING THE GARAGE
IN ORDER TO PUT A SLAB IN.
AND SO WE THOUGHT WHY NOT
ROTATE WHILE WE&apos;RE LIFTING
BECAUSE A YOU KNOW, HAS TO BE
LIFTED ANYWAY.
B WE REDUCED THE WATER RUN OFF
DOWN TOWARDS THE GARAGE BECAUSE
BY ROTATING THE GARAGE AND
HAVING THE DRIVEWAY S TOWARDS
WASHINGTON THE GRADE IS PRETTY
MUCH LEVEL IN THAT DIRECTION
VERSUS GOING UP TOWARDS GOING
UP TOWARDS CREST AND THE OTHER
THOUGHT WAS THAT THE THE
PROPERTY ADJACENT TO THIS HOUSE
ON THE EAST ALONG WASHINGTON
HAS ITS DRIVEWAY ON ON THE WEST
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY SUCH THAT
THE TWO DRIVEWAYS WOULD BE
ADJACENT WHEREAS THE HOUSE TO
THE NORTH ON CREST WHICH IS ONE
FIFTEEN CREST HAS ITS SHARED
DRIVEWAY TO THE NORTH OF THAT
HOUSE.
SO BASICALLY THERE&apos;S THE
DRIVEWAY OF 115 CREST.
THEN THERE&apos;S CREST THEN THERE&apos;S
ONE TWENTY ONE CREST DRIVEWAY
POTENTIALLY AND THEN THIS HOUSE
SO IT WOULD REDUCE THE PAY JUST
THE AMOUNT OF PAVED AREA AND
WOULD REDUCE BECAUSE THE HOUSE
TO THE NORTH ON CREST IS PRETTY
CLOSE TO THAT PROPERTY LINE.
YOU WOULD IT WOULD ALLOW A
GREEN BUFFER BETWEEN THE HOUSE
TO THE NORTH AND THE HOUSE THAT
WE&apos;RE DEALING WITH HERE.
I HOPE I&apos;VE EXPLAINED THAT WELL
.
&gt;&gt; CAN I ASK A QUESTION ABOUT
THAT?
I THOUGHT THAT STAFF SAID THAT
IF THE GARAGE WASN&apos;T GOING TO
BE ROTATED YOU WERE NOT GOING
TO DO A DRIVEWAY ON THE NORTH
SIDE OF YOUR HOUSE.
BUT WE COULDN&apos;T OH, OK.
I KNOW BECAUSE YOU WERE SAYING
IT&apos;S SIX HUNDRED AND NINETY
SQUARE FEET BUT YOU CAN&apos;T DO
THAT ANYWAY OR WELL I GUESS I&apos;M
SPEAKING THEORETICALLY IF YOU
WERE TO DO IT IT WOULD BE THAT
BIG BUT YOU&apos;RE NOT PLANNING ON
DOING IT ANYWAY ARE YOU
PLANNING
I DON&apos;T THINK WE KNOW
IT&apos;LL FIT WITH THE STAIRS WITH
EVERYTHING ELSE.
RIGHT BECAUSE WE HAD ORIGINALLY
PLANNED AT THE STAIRS TO THE
BASEMENT BE ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE EDITION WHICH IS
ESSENTIALLY ON THE IN THE FRONT
YARD AND JILL SAID OH NO, YOU
CAN&apos;T DO THAT.
SO THAT&apos;S WHAT WE WERE
THINKING.
WE COULD HAVE THE DRIVEWAY
ALONG THE NORTH SIDE BUT ONCE
WE PUT THE STAIR TO THE NORTH
SIDE PRECLUDED THAT.
HOWEVER, IF YOU WANTED MORE
DRIVEWAY IT WOULD BE MORE THAN
IF YOU ROTATED THE GARAGE.
THANK YES.
HOW IS THAT HISTORIC DRIVEWAY
GOING TO BE TREATED WITH THE
NEW DRIVEWAY AS A GROUP I GUESS
I&apos;M THINKING THAT WELL THE
HISTORIC DRIVEWAY CURRENTLY IS
GRAVEL AT BEST WITH GRASS ROOTS
GORE RIGHT THROUGH IT.
I I&apos;M NOT SURE WHAT DO WE
WHAT&apos;S THE PLAN FOR THE
EXISTING DRIVEWAYS?
&gt;&gt; I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY HEY
ROBERT, COULD YOU COME UP TO
THE PODIUM?
SURE.
I CAN&apos;T GET YOUR VOICE ON THE
MICROPHONE.
SO THE PLAN FOR THE EXISTING
DRIVEWAY HAS YET TO BE
DEVELOPED BUT I WOULD IMAGINE
THAT BE GREEN SPACE BETWEEN THE
TWO HOUSES
NO REFERENCE TO THE
HISTORIC ORIGINAL, NO REFERENCE
TO IT LIKE IF SOMEONE WERE TO
DRIVE BY WALK BY IT WOULD JUST
LOOK LIKE LAWN THERE WILL BE NO
YEAH I SUPPOSE I GUESS THE
EXISTING CURB CUT WOULD REMAIN
I&apos;M SORRY THE EXISTING CURB CUT
WOULD REMAIN NO THEY WOULDN&apos;T
LET YOU HAVE A CURB LEFT
DOESN&apos;T LEAD ANY CURB CUTS.
&gt;&gt; NO NO.
WELL YOU COULD POTENTIALLY HAVE
TO CURB CUTS BUT YOU COULDN&apos;T
HAVE A CURB CUT THAT LEADS TO
NO LEGAL PARKING SPACE.
SO IF YOU PUT ONE WHERE THE
EXISTING DRIVEWAY IS, IT&apos;S NOT
A LEGAL PARKING SPACE.
SO YOU&apos;D THEY THE CITY WOULD
MAKE YOU GET RID OF THE CURB
CUT THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
SO CAN WE.
QUESTION IS CAN WE LEAVE THE
EXISTING PARKING BASICALLY ON
THE CURB?
BUT I COULD DO THAT AS WELL IF
IT&apos;S A NOD TO THE EXISTING
INSTALLED DRIVEWAY WHICH IS NOT
MUCH OF A DRIVEWAY.
&gt;&gt; THE EXISTING DRIVEWAY IS
JUST GRAVEL TO TRAFFIC
ESSENTIALLY IT&apos;S OVERGROWN AND
YEAH, YOU CAN SEE IT IN THE
VERY MINIMAL I BELIEVE THE
PREVIOUS OWNER PARKED ONE VERY
SMALL CAR KNOWS FIRST THERE&apos;S A
GOOD PHOTO OF IT IN THE PACKET
THERE YOU SEE SIXTEEN IT&apos;S
PROBABLY JUST FROM THE PICTURE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT A TWO NO IT&apos;S
REALLY OK.
YEAH WELL IT FIT WELL I DON&apos;T
IT&apos;S VERY VERY CLOSE TO THAT
CAR THERE ARE MUCH LARGER THAN
YEAH YEAH IT&apos;S I THINK THE DOOR
OPENING IS SEVEN AND A HALF
FEET SO IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT A BIG
DEAL.
BIGGER CAR IS WHAT ARE YOUR
PLANS FOR THE THE GARAGE YOU&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT RAISING IT
TURNING IT THE ORIGINAL DOORS
AND SIDING WITH THAT I&apos;LL BE
RETAINED AND RESTORED.
CAN YOU TALK ABOUT THAT A
LITTLE BIT?
YEAH.
THE PLAN IS IF I WOULD PROBABLY
REGARDLESS OF ITS ORIENTATION
SCRAPING PAINT AND CLEAN IT OUT
WHETHER OR NOT IT&apos;S USED AS A
FOR AN AUTO I GUESS WOULD DRIVE
AND SPEAK TO HOW FAR I GO WITH
THE CONCRETE ANYTHING ON THE
INTERIOR IT&apos;S IT&apos;S PRETTY
STABLE.
I&apos;VE DONE WORK ON OTHER GARAGES
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
WEREN&apos;T NEARLY AS STOUT SO YEAH
I GUESS AT A MINIMUM SCRAPING
PAINT IT AND DEPENDING ON THE
FUNCTION YOU SLAP THE ELECTRIC
OK AND THEN WHEN YOU MENTIONED
RAISING IT WAS RACING TO GET
THE SLAB AND WHO WOULDN&apos;T BE
RAISING THE HEIGHT ANY OK
COMMISSION REPORT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH QUESTION.
CAN YOU SPEAK TO THE
AFOREMENTIONED CITING EXPOSURE
WHY THAT WAS CHOSEN AND THEN
ALSO IS THERE A SKIRT OR TRIM
ON THE EDITION?
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S UNCLEAR FROM THE
DRAWINGS IF THERE IS OR NOT WE
WERE SHOWING A LARGER CITING
EXPOSURE THEN THE EXISTING
THREE INCH AND WE WERE
SUGGESTING SEVEN INCHES BUT
WE&apos;RE OPEN TO OTHER SUGGESTIONS
SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S NOT A PROBLEM.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE NOT DISPUTING THE
CURRENT EDITION AS SHOWN IS NOT
SHOWING A SKIRT BOARD BUT AGAIN
IN PART TO DIFFERENTIATE IT NOR
ARE WE SHOWING WE ARE TRYING
CORNER TRIM.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SORRY BUT WE&apos;RE OPEN TO
SUGGESTION AS WELL SO WE CAN BE
FLEXIBLE.
OKAY, AND I THINK YOU SORT
OF TOUCHED ON IT THE THE HEIGHT
OF THE NEW EDITION MISS
THATCHER DID YOU KNOW, RAISE
SOME QUESTION OR CONCERN?
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU TALK ABOUT THE HIKE
A LITTLE BIT BECAUSE OF THE
STEEP PITCH AND TRYING TO
OCCUPY AS MUCH SPACE UNDER THAT
ROOF BECAUSE THE EVE IS QUITE
LOW?
YES, WE ARE TRYING TO MAXIMIZE
THE HEIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WELL, STAY BELOW THE
EXISTING AND THAT&apos;S WHY YOU SEE
THE LITTLE PIECE THAT ACTUALLY
CONNECTS TO THE EXISTING IS
QUITE A BIT LOWER AND THEN WE
ARE ABLE TO POP BACK UP AND
THEN HAVE THE APPEARANCE OF A
VERY STEEP PITCHED GABAL ON THE
BACK.
THE OBJECTIVE IS PURELY TO
OCCUPY AS MUCH SPACE AS WE CAN
UNDER THAT ROOF TO MAXIMIZE IT
TO GAIN AS MUCH SPACE AS THE
FLOOR SPACE AS IT&apos;S SET UP NOW
YOU REACH YOUR WHERE THE ROOF
PITCHES THAT YOU MAX YES.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHERE YOU GET YOUR
HABITABLE SPACE.
SO WE NEED LOWER YOU DROP IT
YOU WOULD LOSE SOME FLOOR AREA.
&gt;&gt; YES.
I MEAN THE MASTER BEDROOM WHICH
IS PRIMARILY IN THE ADDITION IS
QUITE SMALL AS IT IS ABOUT 12
FEET BY 12 FEET AND TRYING NOT
TO LOSE FLOOR SPACE AND THAT
EVEN THOUGH BY CODE WE CAN DO
LESS THAN A FIVE FOOT CEILING
IN THERE AS LONG AS WE HAVE A
70 SQUARE FOOT AREA THAT IS
ABOVE ABOVE A SEVEN FOOT
CEILING.
&gt;&gt; THE PROBLEM IS WITHIN THE
LINK WHICH IS THE SORT OF LOWER
THE HIGH PITCHED ROOF IS WHERE
IT GOES LOWER.
THAT&apos;S THE BATHROOM AND WE NEED
FIXTURE CLEARANCES AROUND
TOILETS AND SHOWERS AND SO WE
REALLY DO DIFFICULT TO SQUEEZE
EVERYTHING IN.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A SMALL
HOUSE AND WE&apos;RE TRYING TO MAKE
IT BY TODAY&apos;S STANDARDS IT&apos;S A
TWO BEDROOM, ONE BATHROOM HOUSE
AND IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, BY TODAY&apos;S
STANDARDS THAT JUST YOU KNOW,
IT DOESN&apos;T SELL.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
RIGHT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR OK,
THANK YOU.
YOU MAY HAVE A SEAT.
THANK.
I WILL NOT OPEN THE PUBLIC
PORTION A PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THIS ITEM AT ONE TWENTY ONE.
CHRIS, IF THERE ANY CALLERS WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION, PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEDIATED NINE SIX FIVE
THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN
SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO ON
YOUR AGENDA AND PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
&gt;&gt; I DO NOT SEE ANY CALLERS
WRITE THIS ITEM.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION.
IS THERE A SO IF TWO MOTIONS TO
CONSIDER IS THERE A
COMMISSIONER THAT WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE THEIR SINGLE MOTION OR ONE
OF THE SUGGESTED MOTION WITH
BOTH COMMISSIONER, I KNOW THAT
THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE PORTION OF THE
APPLICATION AT 121 CRESTA
AVENUE, A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ADD A TWO STOREY
REAR ADDITION AND THAT AND AN
OPEN EXCUSE ME AND AN AIR
CONDITIONING UNIT ON THE NORTH
SIDE OF THE HOUSE AS PROPOSED
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE, NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AS WELL AS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR THE
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS CIRCA
SORRY COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE.
WE OK TO DISCUSS THIS MOTION
BEFORE MOVING ON TO THE GRAND?
I THINK THIS APPLICATION IS
FAIRLY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF AS FAR AS
THE ADDITIONS I THINK THERE ARE
A COUPLE OF HESITATIONS I HAD
REGARDING THE HEIGHT OF THE
EDITION OVERALL COMPARED TO THE
EXISTING HOUSE ESPECIALLY SINCE
IT IS ON A CORNER LOT UM TRYING
TO CONSIDER THAT THE MASSING
SIZE AND SCALE IN RELATION TO
THE EXISTING IT LOOKS I THINK
THE OVERALL FOOTPRINT, YOU
KNOW, MAKES SENSE AS IS THE
SIZE BUT I CAN&apos;T QUITE TELL
WHAT IT IS BUT IT&apos;S LOOKING
BECAUSE ITS HEIGHT IS SO CLOSE
TO THE EXISTING IT BORDERING ON
THAT THAT OVERPOWERING
UM AND
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF PART OF THAT
YOU KNOW, COLUMN THAT WE&apos;RE
LOOKING AT ON THE SCREEN WITH
THE HIGHER SHED ROOF THAT MAKES
IT SEEM HIGHER AND THEREFORE UM
IS STARTING TO CREATE SOME
IMPOSING CONDITIONS ON THE
EXISTING BUT THAT&apos;S KIND
OF WHERE I AM RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; I THINK MOST OF THE OTHER
TREATMENT IS IS IS UM
COMPATIBLE UM I DON&apos;T THINK I
HAVE AN ISSUE WITH THE THE
SEVEN INCH EXPOSURE ON THE
SIDING.
I THINK THAT THAT DOES
DIFFERENTIATE BUT I THINK THIS
PORTION WILL BE VERY EXPOSED.
SO I THINK THE HEIGHT IS REALLY
ONE OF MY BIGGER CONCERNS AT
THE MOMENT.
UM, THAT I KNOW THAT THE ISSUE
WITH THE EXPOSURE OF THE SIDING
I THINK THE DIFFERENTIATION YOU
KNOW, FOR EXAMPLE CONFINING MY
MIND THAT IS COMPATIBLE WITH
DIFFERENT FAIRLY DIFFERENT YOU
KNOW WHERE I TAKE ISSUE WITH
ADDITIONS IS THAT THE HEIGHT
OF THE MAIN PORTION OF THE ROOF
I APPRECIATE THE CONSIDERATION
AND OPEN PORTIONS FELT SEPARATE
AND MAKE THAT BREAK.
I THINK MAYBE YOU IF THE SITE
IN THE DESIGN ALLOWED FOR MAYBE
LONGER IF POSSIBLE BUT THAT&apos;S
NOT GATES AND NOT TO BE HERE
AND I THINK THAT BUMPING UP TO
BE TREATED LIKE OH MY GOSH I&apos;M
SO DID YOU CATCH ANY OF THAT?
&gt;&gt; YES.
SERVOZ SORRY.
START ALL OVER.
YEAH.
IF THAT HYPHEN WAS WIDER MAYBE
IT WOULDN&apos;T BE READ AS IMPOSING
THE THE ADDITIONAL HEIGHT AND I
THINK WITH THE WINDOW
PROPORTIONS AND EVERYTHING IT&apos;S
READING VERY VERTICAL SO I
THINK IT IS WORKING IN MY MIND
A LITTLE BIT AGAINST THE GOAL
OF THE GUIDELINES.
MY QUESTION AND MAYBE I&apos;M NOT
UNDERSTANDING THE INTERIOR
LAYOUT TOO MUCH OF A SECOND
FLOOR BUT IF IF THAT OVERALL
HEIGHT THAT YOU&apos;RE DESCRIBING
IS REALLY AT ADITS, YOU KNOW,
MINIMUM IN ORDER TO MAKE IT THE
MOST USEFUL OR IF THERE IS A
WAY TO BRING THAT RIDGELINE
DOWN SOME THAT COULD HELP
DIFFERENTIATE THE ROOF PITCHES
AGAIN BECAUSE IT IS SUCH A
EXPOSED SITE AND EXPOSURE
OF THAT ELEVATION.
THAT&apos;S WHERE I&apos;M HAVING
DIFFICULTY WITH THE ADDITION
WHICH IF THIS WAS ACROSS CABLE
HOUSE, IF THE ADDITION WAS
ACROSS CABLE THEN THE RIDGE
LINE COULD BE JUST BELOW THE
RIDGE OF THE EXISTING HOUSE.
ISN&apos;T THAT WHAT WE TYPICALLY
SEE?
BUT BUT IN AN ADDITION WHERE
THE CABLE IS FACING THE SAME
WAY AS IT STANDS RIGHT, OK,
YEAH I THINK IT&apos;S AN
INTERESTING POINT BECAUSE THOSE
ACROSS CABLE EDITION DOESN&apos;T
WOULDN&apos;T FEEL LOOMING IN THAT
WAY EVEN IF THE RIDGE IS
BASICALLY THE SAME HEIGHT AS
THE EXISTING RIDGE.
BUT BECAUSE YOUR BUILDING
APPEARS DIFFERENT.
YEAH, COMMISSIONER.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN IF YOU HAD
GABLED DORMERS INSTEAD OF QAID
?
&gt;&gt; NO, I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT THE
RIDGE WAS PERPENDICULAR THE
RIDGE OF THE EXISTING IS
PERPENDICULAR TO THE RIDGE
OF THE ADDITION RIGHT NOW THE
VIEW THAT WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT IS
THAT WE SAW THE TIME THAT I
TOTALLY DIFFERENT HYPOTHETICAL
I&apos;M JUST THINKING RIDGE HEIGHTS
IS WHAT THAT&apos;S WHAT WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT HERE.
YEAH RIGHT.
RIDGE HEIGHTS OF EXISTING
VERSUS RIDGE HEIGHTS
OF ADDITIONS AND THIS RIDGE IS
SLIGHTLY BELOW THE RIDGE OF THE
EXISTING AND I KNOW THAT
THERE&apos;S YEAH THERE&apos;S JUST A
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE TWO
EXAMPLES.
&gt;&gt; YEAH
I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW
ADDRESS WHAT KIND OF YOUR
ELEVATION HERE WE HAVE THIS
TIME I SAID OH YEAH I THINK THE
OTHER THING I&apos;M LOOKING AT IS
THE EASE ESPECIALLY IN THE SIDE
YOU LOOKED A LITTLE BIT HIGHER
THAN THE EXISTING ESPECIALLY ON
THAT THAT WASHINGTON STREET.
SO THAT&apos;S ALSO RIGHT HERE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
OH THE FIRST FOR EVE IS LOWER
THE SECOND FLOOR EVEN HIGHER
RATE.
&gt;&gt; SO I FEEL LIKE THAT THAT&apos;S
MAKING IT ALSO SEEM A LITTLE
BIT HIGHER RATED THAT LIFT THAT
ROOF NOW APPEARS TO BE MUCH
TALLER THAN THE ORIGINAL
STRUCTURE ALSO BECAUSE IT&apos;S
WITHIN A HEIGHT.
I&apos;M JUST SAYING THAT IS BEING I
THINK THE MARZIN OVERALL SEEMS
IT REALLY IS RIGHT AT THAT
FIFTY PERCENT BUT IT&apos;S ALSO
REALLY TAKING UP THAT IT&apos;S NOT
JUST THE ROOF.
THE ROOF THEN I THINK IS
APPRECIATED BUT THEN THE WALLS
DON&apos;T ALSO KIND OF MAKE THAT
HYPHEN THAT THAT THAT ONE IN
STEP AND THEN SO THE FOOTPRINT
IS A LARGE MASS BUT I DO
APPRECIATE THERE&apos;S SOME DESIGN
ELEMENTS THAT ARE REALLY NICE
LIKE THAT THAT DORMER IS MADE
SMALLER.
SO IT&apos;S TRYING TO MINIMIZE THAT
THAT MASINO OVERALL.
SO I THINK THAT THAT IS REALLY
HELPFUL.
UM, I JUST THINK IN GENERAL THE
MASS SEEMS TO BE ALMOST
OVERPOWERING THIS THIS PORTION
AND I&apos;M CONCENTRATING I GUESS
ON THIS ELEVATION THE I THINK
THIS IS A.
S ELEVATION THAT&apos;S ON
WASHINGTON BECAUSE THAT IS
MAYBE THE REVIEW COMMITTEE CAN
WEIGH IN HERE ON HOW THEY THINK
THIS ELEVATION IS GOING TO BE
VIEWED.
WHAT ARE THE OTHER HOUSES LIKE
ALONG THIS STREET WITHIN THIS
AREA?
WHAT OTHER EDITIONS ARE THERE
THAT ARE VISIBLE?
WHAT ARE WHAT ARE YOUR
PERCEPTIONS ON HOW THIS WILL BE
PERCEIVED WITHIN THE CONTEXT?
I MEAN I THINK IF I DON&apos;T HAVE
A LOT TO OFFER IN THE SENSE
THAT I DIDN&apos;T DO A WHOLE LOT
OF UNFORTUNATELY KIND
OF LOOKING AT THE JASON HOUSES
TO SEE IF IF THERE WERE ANY
KIND OF LARGE ADDITIONS THAT I
GUESS LIKE I DIDN&apos;T I DIDN&apos;T
NOTICE THAT THERE WERE I MEAN
THIS BEING ON THE CORNER I MEAN
IT&apos;LL CERTAINLY BE VISIBLE
OBVIOUSLY BUT YEAH, I GUESS I
DIDN&apos;T NOTICE ANY OTHER HOUSES
AROUND WITH LARGE EDITIONS.
YEAH.
I THINK THAT PART OF WASHINGTON
I MEAN YOU&apos;D ON WASHINGTON AT
THAT PRICE I THINK YOU SEE THE
FRONT.
YEAH GABLE AND THOSE HOMES
YOU&apos;RE NOT GOING TO SEE THE
BROAD SIDE LIKE YOU DO AT THE
CORNER SO IT&apos;S A LITTLE
DIFFERENT.
YEAH I THINK I WAS JUST REALLY
LOOKING AT THE HOMES ON CREST I
DIDN&apos;T LOOK ON WASHINGTON BUT I
KNOW WE&apos;VE APPROVED AN ADDITION
TWO DOORS DOWN.
IT WAS A MUCH SMALLER EDITION
BUT IT&apos;S IT WAS YEAH.
THERE&apos;S AN ADDITIONAL ROOF TWO
DOORS DOWN THAT I THINK MIGHT
MAYBE IT WAS NO IT WAS A
SMALLER EDITION.
I DON&apos;T REMEMBER IF IT WAS A
ONE STORY OR TWO STORY
UNCORRECT YOU REMEMBER RIGHT IN
STATURE I DON&apos;T I&apos;D HAVE TO
LOOK IT UP IN ST. LOUIS OR
SOMETHING.
YEAH, I DO KNOW THAT THE GREEN
HOUSE NEXT OR DOESN&apos;T HAVE ANY
ADDITIONS ON THE BACK AND THEN
GOING DOWN WASHINGTON YOU THE
ADDITIONS WOULD BE ON THE BACK
AND HARDER TO SEE BECAUSE THERE
WAS LOTS OF NARROW I GUESS WHAT
I&apos;M YOU TOGETHER FROM THIS
CORNER HOW MUCH OF THAT
ADDITION IS SEEMINGLY VISIBLE
AND OBSTRUCTING AND OR CHANGING
ANY OF THE STREET VIEWERS AND I
GUESS IT&apos;LL BE A QUESTION FOR
THE DRIVEWAY AS WELL.
DOES IT SEEM LIKE THERE&apos;S A
LARGE IMPACTORS, YOU KNOW, TREE
THERE LIKE YEAH.
YOU KNOW THE RIGHT YEAH.
I&apos;M JUST ASKING I REMEMBER THE
ENTIRE THE ENTIRE EDITION WOULD
BE VERY VISIBLE RIGHT FROM
WASHINGTON KNOW THAT I
UNDERSTAND I GUESS I&apos;M ASKING
HOW WHAT&apos;S THE SENSE OF THAT
IMPACT WOULD BE ON YOU JASON?
&gt;&gt; YEAH I THINK IT&apos;S HARD TO
SAY SINCE IT IS A CORNER THERE
AND REALLY YOU WOULD JUST BE
SEEING THAT NOT IN RELATION TO
THAT SIDE OF ANY OTHER HOMES AT
THAT POINT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH,
AND YOU SAID THAT TREE
IS WHERE THE PROPOSED NEW CURB
CUT IS.
YEAH.
CAN WE SAVE THAT FOR THE GARAGE
DISCUSSION?
SORRY.
YEAH OK.
I GOT DISTRACTED BY LOOKING AT
THAT PHOTO ALSO JUST FOR
CLARIFICATION I DON&apos;T THINK OH
YOU CAN GO BACK TO THAT FOR THE
WHICH ONE DO YOU LIKE THAT ONE
SO IS THE SKINNY CHIMNEY THAT
WE SEE ABOVE THE GATE THE
EXISTING DORMER IS THAT THIS
HOUSE OR IS THAT SOMETHING
BEYOND THIS PROPERTY?
THAT&apos;S THIS HOUSE AND I THINK
THAT IN ANY OF THE DRAWINGS SO
I WAS JUST CURIOUS WHERE IT
ACTUALLY WAS.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN IT&apos;S COULD COULD ONE
OF YOU COME ON UP FIRST
?
I JUST CLARIFY THE INTENT
OF THAT CHIMNEY STAYS RIGHT THE
CHIMNEY IF YOU WANT.
WELL, IT&apos;S THAT IT HASN&apos;T BEEN
PROPOSED TO BE REMOVED SO IT
HAS BEEN PROPOSED IT THAT IN
THE APPLICATION QUITE SLENDER
AND STRUCTURALLY PROBABLY WOULD
NEED TO BE BUILT IF AT LEAST
ONE POINT WE DON&apos;T KNOW THE
CONDITION OF THE FLUIDS LIKE OR
WHAT&apos;S INSIDE OF IT OBVIOUSLY
WOULD HAVE TO BE REBUILT.
IT&apos;S NOT USED.
THERE&apos;S A FIREPLACE IN THE
HOUSE JUST LIKE FOR THE FURNACE
AND AT THIS POINT IN TIME WE
USE HIGH EFFICIENCY FURNACES
THAT DON&apos;T REQUIRE THAT SORT
OF VENTING AS WELL AS
POTENTIALLY A ONDEMAND HOT
WATER SYSTEM WHICH ALSO WILL
REQUIRE THAT SORT OF VENTING.
SO YEAH, I GUESS IN THIS
CONTEXT YEAH.
YEAH.
I JUST WAS ASKING FOR A
CLARIFICATION ON WHAT THE
INTENT IS BECAUSE I DON&apos;T THINK
THERE WAS ANY MENTION OF IT IN
THERE&apos;S NO APPLICATION SO IF
THAT&apos;S NOT PART OF THIS
APPLICATION OR NOT.
YEAH I THINK IT WAS JUST A
MATTER OF PUTTING A REALLY
QUICK VISUAL INSPECTION.
IT WAS NOT IN GREAT CONDITION
TO SAY THE LEAST IN TERMS
OF THE MORTAR OF THAT CHIMNEY.
&gt;&gt; SO WOULD YOU LIKE THE
COMMISSION TO CONSIDER ALLOWING
YOU TO REMOVE IT AS PART OF THE
APPLICATION?
&gt;&gt; YES.
OK, THANK BEFORE YOU ASK THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE I DID NOT GIVE
IT TO ME WHILE I WAS OUT THERE
UNFORTUNATELY.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;LL JUST THAT YEAH I
AGREE IT&apos;S WE SHOULD KNOW BUT
WE DID SORRY AND MAYBE THAT&apos;S
TELLING OF ITS WELL
CONTRIBUTION THE FUTURE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH OR NOT
.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS QUESTION.
I&apos;M READY FOR A VOTE ON THE DO
YOU GUYS WANT TO DEAL WITH THE
CHIMNEY AND THE MOTION OR NOT.
&gt;&gt; OH WE&apos;RE GOING TO ADD THE
CHIMNEY TO THE MOTION WHERE DID
YOU GET I HAVE I HAVE NOT ADDED
IT TO COMMISSIONER WILLIS ARE
YOU OK?
WE HAD REMOVAL OF THE CHIMNEY.
YEAH.
DO WE HAVE A PHOTO OF IT?
SO I MEAN I SEE THE PHOTO AND
JUST DOES IT WORK THAT WAS
REALLY GOING TO YOUR END STREET
VIEW.
YEAH.
OH IT ISN&apos;T JUST IT&apos;S JUST
THESE TWO PHOTOGRAPHS THAT SHOW
I LOOK THROUGH THE TREES IT&apos;S A
IT&apos;S A LIKE A FURNACE VENT OR A
WATER HEATER.
IT&apos;S NOT A FIREPLACE OR A RIGHT
WOOD STOVE OR YOU KNOW I SEE
YOU&apos;VE GOT A LITTLE INTEREST
ABOUT IT.
IT&apos;S SIX INCHES BY SIX INCHES
JUST IS JUST FOR CLEAN
HOUSEKEEPING HERE.
THE PAPERWORK ALL I&apos;M GLAD YOU
BROUGHT THAT UP THOUGH SO OK,
CHIMNEY HAS BEEN ADDED TO THE
MOTION
AFTER AS PROPOSED I
ADDED AND REMOVED THE CHIMNEY
THE WORK AS AMENDED IS
COMPATIBLE
.
ANY OTHER FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
THE ADDITION?
&gt;&gt; I MEAN I&apos;LL JUST PUT IN MY
TWO CENTS ABOUT THE ADDITION.
I THINK THAT THIS HOUSE IS I
SAID WAS DIFFICULT THAT IT WAS
A CORNER HOUSE ON HAUNTED
HOUSES ARE DIFFICULT.
I THINK ADDING TO THIS
DIFFICULTY IS THE VERY STEEP
ROOF AND THE FACT THAT LIKE SO
MANY OF THESE HOUSES THAT IT&apos;S
NOT A FULL TWO STORY HOUSE.
RIGHT.
IT&apos;S A ONE AND A HALF OR WHAT
WE CAN GIVE IT ONE AND THREE
QUARTERS ONE AND A HALF IS ONE
AND THREE QUARTERS.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S VERY DIFFICULT TO ADD
TO A HOUSE LIKE THAT AND I
THINK THAT THIS PROPOSAL TOOK
ALL THOSE CHALLENGES AND AND
TRIED TO WAY DIFFERENTIATION
VERSUS COMPATIBILITY THE THE
STEEP ROOF, THE ONE AND THREE
QUARTERS HEIGHT AND AND CAME UP
WITH THE CLEVER SOLUTION TO IT
THAT I THINK IS MEETING THE
STANDARDS.
THANK YOU SAYS WE&apos;RE READY FOR
A VOTE.
&gt;&gt; OK, ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
&gt;&gt; ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO RIGHT MOTION FOR THE
ADDITION AS AMENDED KERIS YOUR
COMMISSIONER LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION REGARDING GRUNDT
COMMISSIONER MR I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUED A CERTIFICATE
APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE PORTION
OF APPLICATION AT 121 CRESTA
AVENUE, THE CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO ROTATE
GARAGE TO FACE SOUTH INSTEAD
OF WEST AND ADD A NEW ASPHALT
DRIVEWAY AND CURB CUT IN WEST
WASHINGTON STREET AS PROPOSED
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO, FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE AS WELL AS THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR
THE GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND PAVED
AREAS SELECTED BY COMMISSIONER
CARCANO SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE.
WE&apos;D LIKE TO START THE
DISCUSSION I&apos;M SORRY IT SEEMS
SO LONG AGO BUT HIS STAFF JUST
REITERATE WHAT IS AT PLAY HERE
BECAUSE I THINK THAT IT IS VERY
SPECIFIC IN THE STANDARDS
OF WHAT YOU CAN AND CAN&apos;T DO.
&gt;&gt; I JUST NEED A REFRESHER
CERTAINLY.
UM LET&apos;S SEE SO STANDARD NUMBER
TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF A PROPERTY WILL BE RETAINED
AND PRESERVED.
THE REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURES, SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
THE CHARACTER AS A PROPERTY
WILL BE AVOIDED AND STAFF FEELS
THAT ROTATING GARAGE AND
RELOCATING THE DRIVEWAY WOULD
SIGNIFICANTLY ALTER FEATURE
SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS OF THE SITE.
AND THEN FOR THE INTERIOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES, THE CHANGE IN
APPEARANCE AND ADDITIONAL
DRIVEWAY DOES NOT MATCH THE
HISTORIC CONFIGURATION OF THE
GARAGE AND DRIVEWAY THAT WAS
THE SORRY MY PAGES ARE MESSED
UP HERE.
THAT WAS THE DESIGN GUIDELINE
THAT SAID WOW I&apos;M REALLY MESSED
UP.
THERE IT IS.
THERE IS IT IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO
MAINTAIN AND RESTORE HISTORIC
GARAGES TO MATCH THE HISTORIC
MATERIALS AND CONFIGURATION SO
CONFIGURATION IS THE KEY WORD
THERE AND IT&apos;S ALSO APPROPRIATE
IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE TO ALTER
HISTORIC GARAGES BY USING
MATERIALS CONFIGURATIONS AND
DESIGNS THAT DO NOT MATCH THE
EXISTING OR HISTORIC APPEARANCE
.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M HINGING MY REVIEW ON
THE WORD CONFIGURATION.
I THINK THAT ROTATING THE
GARAGE AND MOVING THE DRIVEWAY
IS CHANGING THE CONFIGURATION
OF THE EXISTING ACCESSIBILITY
STRUCTURE
.
I THINK THAT WORD CONFIGURATION
IS CAN BE READ IN A COUPLE
CONTEXT OR CONFIGURATION OF THE
OVERALL SITE WHERE IT&apos;S WHERE
IT&apos;S LOCATED, WHERE HOW IT&apos;S
ACCESSED BUT ALSO WE&apos;RE
OPENINGS AND WHATNOT ARE
LOCATED TO THE GARAGES TO BE
MAINTAINED AND IT&apos;S POSITIONED
BUT THEN THE DOOR IS MOVED TO
THE OPPOSITE SIDE.
THAT TO ME WOULD BE A CHANGE IN
THE GARAGE CONFIGURATION ITSELF
.
&gt;&gt; OBVIOUSLY IF IT&apos;S ROTATED
THAT&apos;S ALSO A CHANGE IN THE
CONFIGURATION.
BUT MORE ON THE OVERALL LEVEL
TO THE SITE AS IT&apos;S NOW NOT
FACING THE SAME DIRECTION AS
THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE AND
AGAIN I THINK THIS IS A LITTLE
BIT
OF THESE GUIDELINES I THINK
A LITTLE BIT TRICKY FOR ME.
&gt;&gt; I UNDERSTAND I AGREE WITH I
UNDERSTAND WITH A STAFF
POSITION.
I&apos;M NOT SURE THAT I QUITE AGREE
AND I THINK IN THIS CASE IN THE
SENSE ESPECIALLY WITH WITH THE
ADDITIONS IN THE WAY THAT IT IS
ESPECIALLY IN THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY IN THE WAY THIS GARAGE
CAN BE USED IN AND ACCESS
QUESTION DOESN&apos;T PERTAIN TO THE
FOUNDATION OF THE GARAGE TO THE
NEW DRIVEWAY.
YEAH.
SO IT WAS THE ORIGINAL DRIVEWAY
IS MAINTAINED
AS THE DRIVEWAY
AND WE HAVE THIS CONCEPT WITH
THE BUILDING AT THE MAINTAINING
ORIGINAL AND THE NEW HAS TO BE
DISTINGUISHED AS NEW IF IF IT&apos;S
POSSIBLE TO DISTINGUISH THE
DRIVEWAY THERE&apos;S A MODERN
ADDITION WHILE MAINTAINING THE
ORIGINAL DRIVEWAY.
DOES THAT YOU KNOW, DOES THAT
CONCEPT OF ADDITIONS TO THE
BUILDING JUST TRANSFER TO THE
SITE?
&gt;&gt; WOULD YOU CHECK YOUR MIKE?
I THINK IT&apos;S MAY NOT BE CLOSE
ENOUGH.
OH, IT&apos;S A GREEN LIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU.
I DIDN&apos;T FOLLOW THAT.
CAN YOU CAN YOU.
YEAH SO AND I&apos;M I&apos;M ONLY HERE
THINKING ABOUT THE DRIVEWAY
ROTATING THE BUILDING BUT THE
DRIVEWAY WE HAVE THE CONCEPT
WITH THE BUILDING OF THE NEW WE
YOU CAN HAVE AN ADDITION AS
LONG AS IT&apos;S COMPATIBLE BUT
DISTINGUISHED FROM THE HISTORIC
SO WE MAINTAIN THE HISTORIC
DRIVEWAY.
CAN WE PUT IN A NEW DRIVEWAY AS
LONG AS IT&apos;S DISTINGUISH AS
MODERN AND NOT PART OF THE
HISTORIC SITE AND THEORETICALLY
I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW YOU DO THAT
ALTHOUGH ANYTHING OTHER THAN
GRAVEL WOULD LOOK MORE MODERN,
RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, RIGHT.
RIGHT.
WHAT ARE YOU SAYING YOU&apos;RE NOT
SUPPORTING ROTATING THE GARAGE
BUT YOU ARE SOME SORT OF A
DIFFERENT ISSUE IS IS WHAT&apos;S
ALL PART OF CONFIGURATION.
&gt;&gt; OK, BUT I THINK IT&apos;S ALSO A
VALID QUESTION ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENS TO THE EXISTING
DRIVEWAY IF IT&apos;S DOES IT AS
PART OF THIS APPLICATION SINCE
IT IS SOMEWHAT UNCLEAR?
YES, IT WOULD BE GREEN SPACE
BUT AND I WOULD SAY THAT IN
TERMS OF ULTIMATE ALTERATIONS
TO THE SITE THAT DRIVEWAY WOULD
BE THE MOST MINIMAL.
RIGHT.
WE&apos;RE NOT PUTTING UP STRUCTURES
OR FENCES OR BECAUSE ONE OF THE
THINGS IS WE&apos;RE HAVING A
GARAGE.
IT&apos;S THE HIM IN A DRIVE BY
TURNING IT WILL BE USEFUL AND
IT WILL BE AN WE CAN HAVE THE
GREEN SPACE THERE WITH ALSO NOW
WE GET AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A
PRODUCT THAT THEY CAN RIGHT NOW
IS NOT BEING USED AT ALL AND IT
IT&apos;S BETTER TO SAY WELL SPACE
IS ONE WAY THEN THE OTHER IS
SAVING THE BUILDING ROUTINE TO
PUT IN THE DRIVE AND IT&apos;S GOING
TO BE USEFUL FOR I THINK THIS
GOES BACK TO MY YOU KNOW, MY
ATTEMPT AT MY OTHER QUESTION
ABOUT VISUALIZATION THE
ADDITION BUT ALSO THE DRIVEWAY
AND THE HOUSES THAT FOLLOW
WASHINGTON BECAUSE I THINK THE
APPLICANT STATED THAT THERE&apos;S
ANOTHER DRIVEWAY ADJACENT TO
WHERE THIS DRIVE WAS PROPOSED
AND THEN WE GET INTO THE
ALTERNATING DRIVEWAY HOUSE OR
LIKE SHARED DRIVEWAY.
SO IT WOULDN&apos;T BE IT&apos;S NOT LIKE
THERE&apos;S A HOUSE IMMEDIATELY
ADJACENT TO WHERE THE PROPOSED
DRYWALL IS.
BUT WOULD THAT I GUESS MAYBE
THAT&apos;S OK BECAUSE SOME OF THE
OPEN SPACE IS MAINTAINED IN
THAT SENSE IT DOESN&apos;T IT&apos;S NOT
LOCATED IN ADDITIONAL STRUCTURE
IN THE AH THE REAR YARD.
IT&apos;S NOT ALTERING SO MUCH THAT
REAR YOUR VIEW ANY MORE THAN
MAYBE THE ADDITION IS THAT
WE&apos;RE WELL I THINK IN SOME WAYS
IT IS ALTERING THE REAR YARD
BECAUSE NOW YOU KNOW, BEFORE
YOU HAD A GOOD PORTION OF LONG
OR WHAT I UNDERSTAND TO BE LONG
AND AND THIS TREE WHICH MAY BE
A SEPARATE ISSUE BUT NOW YOU&apos;RE
HAVING A PAVED ASPHALT DRIVEWAY
AND MORE BUILDING TAKING UP
THAT REAR YARD WHICH IN MY MIND
CHANGES THE SITE RELATIONSHIP
AND LANDSCAPE FEATURES AN OPEN
SPACE WHICH BECAUSE IT&apos;S
RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN THAT
RELATIONSHIP.
SO BECAUSE IT&apos;S ESSENTIALLY
BEING ELIMINATED AND I KNOW
IT&apos;S A GARAGE WHICH YOU KNOW,
IF YOU KIND OF LOOK AT
HIERARCHY OF STRUCTURES, MAYBE
IT&apos;S SECOND OR LESS TIER BUT
YOU KNOW, HOW IS THAT DIFFERENT
FROM JUST PICKING UP A BUILDING
AND MOVING IT TO A DIFFERENT
SITE OR YOU KNOW, CHANGING
RELATIONSHIP, SOMETHING I
CONSIDER
I GUESS THE WAY I&apos;M
SEEING THE STANDARDS IS THAT
THIS IS NOT APPROPRIATE.
WHAT&apos;S BEING ASKED JUST IF IT&apos;S
NOT IT&apos;S CLEARLY LISTED AS NOT
APPROPRIATE.
I DON&apos;T SEE A MITIGATING
CIRCUMSTANCE THAT WOULD IN THIS
INSTANCE SAY LET&apos;S GO AGAINST
THE STANDARDS AND APPROVE THAT
WHAT I AM SEEING IS MAYBE A
POSSIBLE CONFLICT WITH THE DECK
THAT WE JUST APPROVED AND I
WOULD SAY THAT IF THE THE
GARAGE IS NOT APPROVED TO BE
ROTATED THEN I WOULD BE
AMENABLE TO IF THE AFGHAN
WANTED TO SLIGHTLY REDESIGN
DECK SO THAT IT&apos;S BETTER MORE
YEAH.
I JUST YEAH.
IF THEY WANT TO REDESIGN THE
DECK AND IT&apos;S A STAFF APPROVED
I WOULD RIGHT.
AMENDABLE TO A REDESIGN OF THAT
AND A STAFF APPROVAL WITHOUT
HAVING TO COME BACK THROUGH IF
IF THE GARAGE ISN&apos;T APPROVED
AND THERE&apos;S A DESIRE TO
SLIGHTLY MODIFY THE DECK I I
AGREE I MEAN I THINK THE DESIGN
AS IT STANDS ARE THE PROPOSAL
AS IT STANDS IT&apos;S THE DESIGN
INTENT.
IT&apos;S GOOD AND I THINK IT MAKES
SENSE AND I WANT TO SAY YES BUT
WE HAVE THE PESKY CENTER IN
THIS IN THIS CASE.
I MEAN LOOKING AT I KIND
OF WENT ON GOOGLE EARTH AND I
SEE THAT THE OTHER THE HOUSES
ON THE OPPOSITE CORNERS ALL
HAVE DRIVEWAYS IN THE LOCATION
AND THE GARAGES FACING THE
LOCATION THAT YOU GUYS ARE
PROPOSING.
SO THIS IS THE ONLY OUTLIER.
SO IT MAKES PERFECT SENSE.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S KIND OF ONE
OF THESE SITUATIONS WHERE GOOD
DESIGN IS KIND OF OUTWEIGHT
OUTWEIGHED BY THE STANDARDS IN
MY OPINION IF I WANT TO SPEAK
FOR EVERYBODY THE UNFORTUNATE
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION WE&apos;RE
READY FOR HER VOTE NEED TO LOOK
AT THE MOTION AGAINST
OK, ALL
OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
&gt;&gt; YES, ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO, NO, NO WHETHER
ONE OR TWO YESES.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, YES.
OK AND THERE&apos;S A ONE YES TWO
YES IT ONE THERE IS A YES I
BELIEVE THAT WAS MISSPOKEN
CHANGED THAT WAS THANK YOU.
THE MOTION DOES NOT CARRY SIR
I&apos;M LOOKING TO SEE IF THERE&apos;S
ANY ADDITIONAL COMMENT.
I BELIEVE THAT SO THE MOTION
FOR THE ADDITION IN THE ER AC
UNIT PASSED THE GARAGE DENHA OK
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YOU ON TO ITEM FOUR FIVE
FOURTEEN WEST MADSON ESPECIALLY
PLEASE GIVE MR
THIS ONE I AM
GOING TO LET INTO THE MEETING
THE APPLICANT AND THE
HOMEOWNERS THAT ARE HERE
OF COURSE IT&apos;S NOT THAT I WAS
ONE OF THEM ACTUALLY DOING IT
.
BEAR WITH ME ADAM I&apos;M TRYING TO
GET YOU IN THERE OK ALL RIGHT
WE SHARE SCREEN THIS IS FIVE
FOURTEEN WEST MADISEN IN THE
OVERSIGHT HISTORIC DISTRICT
THIS BRICK TWO STOREY MANSARD
ROOFED HOME APPEARS IN THE 1894
AND 1897 DIRECTORIES WITH NO
NAMED OCCUPANT 1898.
IT WAS THE HOME OF EMILY AND
JOHN BOEHNER WHEN HE WAS A
LABORER.
THEIR LATE THEIR LAST NAME IS
LATER LISTED AS BONNEN AND
EVENTUALLY AS BONNEN AT WHICH
POINT LISTED AS THE ASSISTANT
IN CHARGE OF SURVEYING
INSTRUMENT ROOM U OF M FEATURES
A FORWARD FRONT PORCH WITH A
SHALLOW MANSARD ROOF THAT&apos;S
ADORNED WITH ARROW AND
ROUNDWOOD SHINGLES AND THE BASE
OF THE PORCH IS RUSTICATE BLOCK
AND THE DECKING AND STAIRS ARE
POURED CONCRETE ONE OVER ONE
DOUBLE HUNG WINDOWS ARE TOPPED
WITH SHALLOW BRICK ARCHES AND
THE FRONT AND SIDE ELEVATIONS
OF THE MANSARD FEATURES SMALL
DORMERS WITH STYLIZED PEDIMENTS
.
IN MAY OF 2012 A FIRE CAUSED
EXTENSIVE BURN DAMAGE TO THE
SECOND FLOOR AND ATTIC AND
SMOKE AND WATER DAMAGE
THROUGHOUT THE HOUSE REPAIR
RESTORATION OCCURRED IN 2012
AND 2013.
IN 2013
THE DC APPROVED AN
APPLICATION TO INSTALL A THIRD
FLOOR DORMER THAT&apos;S FACING THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE AND TO CHANGE
A WINDOW OPENING ON A REAR
LOCATION.
THIS SITE IS ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF WEST MADISON STREET WEST
THIRD AND EAST OF FOURTH
STREET.
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING FDA
APPROVAL TO REPLACE THE MASONRY
ELEMENT OF THE FRONT PORCH WITH
SIMILAR MATERIALS.
&gt;&gt; SO THIS IS A VERY UNIQUE
FRONT PORCH.
THERE&apos;S NOT ANOTHER ONE LIKE IN
ANN ARBOR THAT I KNOW OF .
IT&apos;S CONSTRUCTED OF RUSTICATED
QUMU CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS,
CONCRETE BLOCKS.
HERE&apos;S A PHOTO FROM THE
APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU CAN
SEE THAT THE STAIRS AND THE
DECK ARE POURED CONCRETE SLABS
AND THE WING WALLS AND THE WALL
OF THE PORCH AND THE ENDS
OF THE WALLS OF THE PORCH ARE
RUSTICATED BLOCK AND THEN THE
COLUMNS OF THE PORCH SIT ON
THESE PILLARS OR HALF COLUMNS
THAT ARE SQUARE BLOCKS INSTEAD
OF RECTANGLES THAT ARE STACKED
UP.
THERE IS CERTAINLY
DETERIORATION AS YOU WOULD
EXPECT DENHA YOU KNOW A HUNDRED
AND THIRTY YEAR OLD PORTRAITS.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THIS PORCH WAS
ORIGINAL TO THE HOUSE OR NOT.
IT&apos;S CERTAINLY UNIQUE AND IT&apos;S
CERTAINLY FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE HAS BEEN
DEGRADATION OF THESE VERY
EXPOSED COLUMNS.
THESE ARE THESE ARE ALMOST
SMOOTH.
IN A MINUTE I&apos;LL SHOW YOU THE
ONE THAT&apos;S IN THE BEST
CONDITION FOR WHAT IT PROBABLY
ORIGINALLY LOOKED LIKE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE LONGER
BLOCKS ALSO HAVE DETERIORATION
.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S IN CERTAIN SPOTS.
IT&apos;S NOT THAT THE WHOLE THING
IS JUST FALLING APART BUT THERE
ARE THERE ARE AREAS
OF DEGRADATION.
THIS IS THE PIER THAT&apos;S AGAINST
THE WALL ON THE EAST END OF THE
PORCH, THE FAR END OF THE PORCH
AND THIS IS THE INTERIOR
SURFACE THIS IS PROBABLY THE
BEST PRESERVED FROM THE WEATHER
AND THAT&apos;S WHAT IT&apos;S CLOSEST TO
WHAT THEY ORIGINALLY LOOKED
LIKE.
THE THE CONCRETE DEFINITELY HAS
AN APPEARANCE OF THE AGGREGATE
THAT YOU CAN SEE IN IT.
THE CAPS ON THESE COLUMNS ARE
PEERS ARE ALSO SHOWING QUITE A
BIT OF WHERE THIS IS THE FRONT
STEPS HERE ON THE RIGHT AND
THIS IS THE SLAB READING
LEADING TO THE FRONT DOOR.
THESE ARE OBVIOUSLY NEWER WHEN
YOU&apos;RE STANDING THERE UP TO
THIS LINE THAN THE OTHER SLABS
THAT MAKE UP THE CONCRETE
DECKING.
IT&apos;S I JUST INCLUDED THAT IN
THERE BY WAY OF COMPARISON, IT
LOOKS LIKE THERE USED TO BE
SOME SORT OF A COATING ON THE
DECK BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THAT
WAS AND THERE&apos;S NOT MUCH LEFT
OF IT.
THIS IS THE DECK THIS CHAIR IS
THE SAME AS THIS CHAIR JUST FOR
REFERENCE.
BUT YOU CAN SEE WHERE ON THE
WALL BLOCK THERE ARE AREAS
WHERE THE THE QUMU IS
DEFINITELY ERODING.
THEY ARE HOLLOW BLOCKS AND SOME
OF THEM YOU CAN REACH RIGHT IN
THERE AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S PRETTY
CRUMBLY.
THE WING WALLS HAVE SOME PRETTY
SERIOUS DEFICIENCY.
SO THAT&apos;S A BAD ONE.
YOU CAN PUT YOUR HAND IN THERE
IF YOU WANT.
THIS IS THE OTHER WING WALL.
IT&apos;S CAP HAS CRACKED AND YOU
CAN SEE WHERE WATER IS JUST YOU
KNOW, ERODED RIGHT THROUGH
THERE.
THE APPLICATION STATES THAT THE
THAT THE DECK IS PULLING AWAY
FROM THE WALL THERE ARE
CERTAINLY SPACES THERE BUT I
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT IT&apos;S GOTTEN A
LOT WORSE OVER TIME.
THESE ARE NEAT MASONRY JOINTS.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THEY&apos;RE RAISED
THIS IS THE FAR END THAT&apos;S IN
THE BUSHES.
I THINK THAT THIS DETAIL IS
PROBABLY BEEN LOST WITH
REPOINTING ON THE OTHER MORE
VISIBLE PARTS.
THAT&apos;S INTERESTING.
I HADN&apos;T NOTICED THAT BEFORE
AND YEAH, THERE&apos;S A GAP THERE.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW SEVERE THAT
IS AND HOW MUCH OF A PROBLEM
THAT IS.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THE COLUMN THAT&apos;S IN
THE WORST CONDITION BECAUSE IT
HAS BOTH A BLOCK OF THE CRACK
AND THE THE CAP IS CRACKED SO
THE DRAWINGS HAVE SOME ERRORS
THESE ARE THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
IT SAYS EIGHTEEN BY EIGHTEEN
INCH ARCHITECTURE BLOCK COLUMNS
ARE ACTUALLY SIXTEEN BY SIXTEEN
AND THE APPLICANT CORRECTED
THAT IN AN EMAIL THAT&apos;LL SHOW
YOU IN A MINUTE.
IT ALSO SAYS THAT THE SIDE
WALLS ARE EIGHT BY 16 INCH
ARCHITECTURAL BLOCK.
THEY&apos;RE NOT THEY&apos;RE EIGHT BY
TWENTY INCH.
YOU CAN SEE THAT IN THE PHOTOS
.
THESE ARE THE 16 INCH BLOCKS
AND THESE ARE CLEARLY WIDER.
THESE ARE THE TWENTY INCH WALL
BLOCKS.
ALL OF THE MASONRY IS SUPPOSED
TO BE REMOVED AND THEN REPLACED
KEEPING THE WOODEN ELEMENTS,
THE WOODEN PORCH POSTS AND
EVERYTHING ABOVE THEM NEW
POURED CONCRETE STEPS WITH AGE
ARCHITECTURAL LOCKS, SIDEWALLS,
SAME FOOTPRINT AND LOOK SIMILAR
TO EXISTING AND THERE WE&apos;VE GOT
THE EIGHTEEN INCH AGAIN WHICH
SHOULD SAY 16 INCH.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S THE PROPOSED
FOUNDATION PLAN
I&apos;M NOT SURE
WHAT TWENTY FOUR INCH
ARCHITECTURE OF LOCKPICK MEANS
SAME FOOTPRINT AND LOOKS
SIMILAR TO EXISTING.
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF THAT&apos;S A
MISSTATEMENT 16 INCHES AND THEN
THERE&apos;S A SECTION VIEW A COUPLE
OF THEM
THE WING WALLS ARE
SHOWN THERE THEY ARE IN THE
SAME LOCATION AND FOOTPRINT.
&gt;&gt; THE PROPOSED NEW BLOCK.
IT IS A RUSTICATED LOOK.
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;RE PROBABLY NEVER GOING
TO MATCH THAT EXISTING
RUSTICATED LOOK.
I THINK THIS ONE AS THESE
BLOCKS GO IS A BETTER MATCH
THAN MOST THAT I&apos;VE SEEN.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;VE SEEN A FEW PORCHES
COME THROUGH WITH BLOCK THAT&apos;S
A LITTLE LESS RUSTIC THAN THIS
AND A LITTLE MORE JUST ANGULAR
LOOKING LIKE LITTLE PIECES HAVE
BEEN PLANED OFF IN THE MOLD.
I THINK THAT THIS ONE LOOKS
PRETTY GOOD.
SO THIS IS AN EMAIL THAT KYLE
DAVIS SENT ME DAY BEFORE
YESTERDAY SO IT DIDN&apos;T GET INTO
THE PACKET BUT HE SAID THAT
THEY WILL BE USING THIS WAS A
RESULT OF THE CONVERSATION THAT
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE HAD WITH
ADAM WHO ALSO WORKS FOR DEXTER
BLOCK.
KYLE CONFIRMS THAT THEY&apos;RE
PROPOSING TO USE SIXTEEN BY
EIGHT BY EIGHT INCH BLOCK AND
16 INCH SQUARES FOR THE COLUMNS
TO KEEP THE ORIGINAL LOOK AS
MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
WE WILL MITER OUR CORNERS
TOGETHER TO GIVE THE LOOK OF A
SOLID 16 BY 16 INCH BLOCK.
THE BASE BLOCK WILL BE SLIGHTLY
SHORTER THAN THE EXISTING BUT
WILL STILL KEEP THE ORIGINAL
STYLE AND LOOK SO OK SO LET&apos;S
SEE.
&gt;&gt; SO ACCORDING TO YOUR
STANDARDS I&apos;VE ALREADY READ TO
TWO NINE TEN JUST TO A NINE
FROM BUILDING SITE IT&apos;S
RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY, RETAIN
AND PRESERVE BUILDING FEATURES
THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
ITS OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER.
IT&apos;S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
THAT&apos;S VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE IN
TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR AND TEXTURE OR
TO DESTROY HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE FROM
THE GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
REMOVE RADICALLY CHANGE THOSE
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
.
NOTE THE WORD RADICALLY
CHANGING THERE.
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING YOU&apos;LL HAVE TO
DECIDE IF THE WHAT&apos;S PROPOSED
IS RADICALLY CHANGING THE
APPEARANCE FROM THE GUIDELINES
FOR MASONRY IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO
IDENTIFY, RETAIN AND PRESERVE
MASONRY FEATURES THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING SUCH AS WALLS,
BRACKETS, RAILINGS, CORNICES,
WINDOW ARCHITRAVES, DOOR
PEDIMENTS STEPS AND COLUMNS AND
DETAILS SUCH AS TOOLING AND
BONDING PATTERNS, COATINGS AND
COLORS.
IT&apos;S NOT RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE
OR RADICALLY CHANGE MASONRY
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDINGS.
THE CHARACTERS DIMINISHED OR TO
REPLACE OR REBUILD A MAJOR
PORTION OF EXTERIOR MASONRY
WALLS THAT COULD BE REPAIRED SO
THAT AS A RESULT THE BUILDING
IS NO LONGER HIS HISTORIC AND
IS ESSENTIALLY NEW CONSTRUCTION
.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO REPAIR
MASONRY FEATURES BY PATCHING,
PIECING IN OR CONSOLIDATING
USING RECOGNIZED PRESERVATION
METHODS.
REPAIR MIGHT ALSO INCLUDE THE
LIMITED REPLACEMENT IN KIND OR
WITH COMPATIBLE SUBSTITUTE
MATERIAL OF THOSE EXTENSIVELY
DETERIORATED OR MISSING PARTS
OF MASONRY FEATURES WHEN THEY
ARE SURVIVING PROTOTYPES IT&apos;S
NOT RECOMMENDED TO REPLACE AN
ENTIRE MASONRY FEATURE SUCH AS
A CHRYSLER BALUSTRADE WOULD
REPAIR OF MASONRY AND LIMITED
REPLACEMENT OF DETERIORATED OR
MISSING PARTS IS APPROPRIATE.
IT&apos;S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
USE A SUBSTITUTE MATERIAL THAT
DOES NOT CONVEY THE VISUAL
APPEARANCE OF THE SURVIVING
PARTS OF THE MASONRY FEATURE OR
THAT IS PHYSICALLY OR
CHEMICALLY INCOMPATIBLE.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO A COUPLE OF STAFF
COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; AS I SAID BEFORE, THIS PORCH
IS VERY UNIQUE TO THE OLD WEST
SIDE BECAUSE OF THE SCULPTED
BLOCK ELEMENTS AND THEIR BIGGER
BLOCKS AND I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S
IMPORTANT TO NOTE IN THIS
APPLICATION THEY WERE MOST
LIKELY CAST ON SITE AS THE
PORCH WAS BEING BUILT, THE
DECKING AND THE CAPS ON
APPARENTLY OUR FOUR INCH
CONCRETE.
&gt;&gt; SO I I CAN&apos;T RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THIS APPLICATION AS
PROPOSED WITH THE CLARIFICATION
THAT CAME IN A COUPLE OF DAYS
AGO VIA EMAIL BECAUSE THE
BLOCKS DON&apos;T MATCH THE SIZE
OF THE EXISTING BLOCKS.
I THINK IT&apos;S VERY IMPORTANT TO
THE CHARACTER OF THE PORCH THAT
THESE ARE OVERSIZE AND THAT&apos;S
ON PURPOSE TO MAKE THEM LOOK
MORE LIKE BIG STONES AND
SOMEBODY AT SOME
POINT SAID
YEAH, WE&apos;RE NOT GOING TO USE
THE STANDARD SIZE, WE&apos;RE GOING
TO GO BIG AND ALSO THAT THESE
THESE COLUMNS ARE A VERY UNIQUE
STYLE AND THAT THEY&apos;RE THE ONLY
EXAMPLE THAT I KNOW OF OF
SQUARE CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS
STACKED UP LIKE THAT OR USED
ANYWHERE IN THE OLD ASIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
SO I THINK AT A MINIMUM WHAT&apos;S
NEEDED IS FOR ONLY THE
DETERIORATED PARTS TO BE
REPLACED WITH A BETTER MATCH IN
TERMS OF SIZE FOR THESE
CONCRETE BLOCKS.
I ALSO FEEL LIKE THIS PIER HAS
A CRACK THAT THAT COULD
POSSIBLY EXPERIENCE AND MASON
COULD COULD REPAIR THAT AND A
NEW CAP BE PLACED ON TOP
OF THIS TO KEEP WATER OUT AND
THAT THE OTHER PIERS ARE IN
PRETTY GOOD CONDITION.
NONE OF THEM ARE IN GREAT
CONDITION BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE OLD
AND THEY&apos;RE CMU AND THEY&apos;RE
WORN DOWN BY THE WEATHER.
&gt;&gt; BUT I REALLY DIDN&apos;T SEE ANY
SIGNS ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
VISIT THAT THESE PIERS IN
PARTICULAR CANNOT REMAIN AND BE
WORKED AROUND THE WALLS ARE A
LITTLE DIFFERENT.
SOME PLACES ARE OK, SOME PLACES
ARE JUST BAD.
SO STAFF RECOMMENDS THAT THAT
IF THE WALLS ARE ALLOWED TO BE
REPLACED THAT THEY BE REPLACED
IN CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS THE
SAME DIMENSIONS AND THAT THE
PILLARS REMAIN.
AND I REALIZED THAT IT&apos;S GOING
TO BE DIFFICULT TO LEAVE THOSE
AND DEMO EVERYTHING AROUND IT.
BUT I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THAT&apos;S
AN IMPOSSIBLE TASK AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO THE COMMISSIONERS
OPINIONS ON THIS.
THANK YOU MR MR FRECKLINGTON.
ROSS, WE PLEASE GIVE YOUR
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
I&apos;M SORRY SO I SAY I APPRECIATE
AND WHOLEHEARTEDLY AGREE WITH
STAFF&apos;S PERCEPTION OF THE
SITUATION.
SO GOING OUT THERE YOU KNOW
CLEARLY THE PORTS DID HAVE SOME
CONDITION ISSUES BUT IN MY
OPINION IT DIDN&apos;T APPEAR TO
MERIT WHOLESALE REPLACEMENT.
IT WASN&apos;T FEELING IT&apos;S JUST
WEATHER, YOU KNOW, KIND
OF WEATHERIZATION OR NO
WEATHERIZATION KIND
OF WEATHERIZED DUE TO AGE BUT
CERTAINLY FUNCTIONAL CERTAINLY
NOT NEEDING TO BE COMPLETELY
TAKEN AWAY AND THROWN OUT.
SO YEAH.
SO I DID HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE DESIRE TO REMOVE THE WHOLE
THING.
UM, I DO AGREE WITH THAT THAT
IT IS A HIGHLY DISTINCTIVE
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEMENT
OF OUR ASPECT OF THIS HOUSE AND
OF THE DISTRICT AS A WHOLE AND
ALSO THE ISSUE AROUND I GUESS
USING THE TERM THE DEVIL BEING
IN THE DETAILS IN TERMS OF ANY
SORT OF REPLACEMENT CONCRETE
BLOCK GOING IN BECAUSE AS MISS
THATCHER NOTED ONCE WE GOT OUT
THERE WE WERE LOOKING AND WE&apos;RE
LOOKING AT THESE CONCRETE
BLOCKS AND THEY&apos;RE NOT YOUR
STANDARD SIZE OF CONCRETE BLOCK
AND YOU ACCORDING TO THE
STANDARDS AND I&apos;M LOOKING AT
STANDARD NUMBER FIVE SPEAKING
TO DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
FINISHES IN CONSTRUCTION
TECHNIQUES OR EXAMPLES
OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTIES
SHOULD BE PRESERVED AND THEN
DENHA NO SECOND THOUGHTS ABOUT
THE FACT THAT YOUR DETERIORATED
FEATURES SHALL BE REPAIRED
RATHER THAN REPLACED.
BUT IF THEY HAVE TO BE REPLACED
THE THE NEW SHOULD MAX NOT BE
SIMILAR TO BUT SHOULD MATCH AND
IT&apos;S LITERALLY TALKING ABOUT
THE OLD AND DESIGN COLOR
TEXTURE AND OTHER VISUAL
QUALITIES AND WHERE POSSIBLE
MATERIAL.
SO TO ME THE STANDARD IS
TALKING ABOUT IF THERE&apos;S GOING
TO BE A GIVE IF NECESSARY IT&apos;S
THE MATERIALITY BUT ALL OTHER
FEATURES SHOULD NOT BE SIMILAR
BUT SHOULD MATCH SHOULD
REPLICATE SO YEAH I LIKE I SAID
I&apos;LL STOPPING FOR COMMISSIONER
THE YEAH I DON&apos;T HAVE MUCH TO
ADD I WILL JUST SAY THAT THE
THE I I WILL AGREE WITH WHAT
I&apos;VE HEARD THAT THIS THIS IS A
VERY UNIQUE PORCH AND IT&apos;S
UNIQUE BECAUSE OF THESE VERY
LARGE AND UNIQUELY SHAPED QUMU
CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS THAT ARE
THAT WE&apos;RE USED TO TO BUILD THE
PIER&apos;S AND THE WALLS THE
PICTURES THAT THE COMMISSIONERS
ARE LOOKING AT ARE SQUISHED.
SO YOU HAVE TO KEEP THAT IN
MIND AND REALLY THE SO YOU CAN
PICTURE THE SQUARE PEERS BEING
THE SIXTEEN BY SIXTEEN AS THEY
ARE WALKING UP YOU&apos;RE JUST
ASSUMING THAT THEY&apos;RE TWO
BLOCKS WITH A VERTICAL JOINT IN
BETWEEN AND THEN AS YOU WALK
AROUND THE HERE YOU REALIZE
THERE&apos;S NO VERTICAL JOINT.
IT&apos;S NOT TWO BLOCKS, IT&apos;S ONE
GIANT BLOCK AND THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
WHAT&apos;S MAKING THIS UNIQUE AND
THE SAME THING IN THE WALL THAT
STRIKES YOU RIGHT AWAY THAT
THOSE UNITS ARE REALLY WIDE.
THEY&apos;RE SQUISHED IN THE PICTURE
THAT WE ALL LOOKED AT BUT THEY
THE PROPORTION IS LIKE AN EXTRA
WIDE PROPORTION.
THEY THE PEERS THEMSELVES DO
LOOK LIKE THEY&apos;RE STRUCTURALLY
IN GOOD SHAPE FOR THE MOST PART
I WAS EXPECTING TO SEE MORE
CRACKING BUT REALLY WHAT IS
THERE IS WHAT&apos;S BEEN SAID IS
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S WEATHERED THE IN
ALMOST ALL INSTANCES IT&apos;S LIKE
THIS NICE SMOOTH SURFACE WHERE
YOU JUST SEE THAT THE AGGREGATE
BEING EXPOSED BY THE WIND AND
THEN YOU HAVE TO KEEP AROUND IT
.
AND WE SAW THE PICTURE OF ON A
PROTECTED SURFACE THE
RUSTICATED LIKE THE ORIGINAL
INVESTIGATION IS STILL THERE.
SO SO YOU CAN SEE THAT THEY ARE
ERODED.
BUT I DON&apos;T THEY&apos;RE NOT
STRUCTURALLY DETERIORATED.
IF THERE WAS A IF THEY WERE
EASILY IF THEY WERE READILY
AVAILABLE IF THEY WERE
AVAILABLE AT ALL, IT SEEMS LIKE
IT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE TO SWAP
THEM OUT BECAUSE THEY DON&apos;T
LOOK LIKE WHAT THEY&apos;RE SUPPOSED
TO LOOK LIKE ANYMORE.
BUT TO I IT&apos;LL BE INTERESTING
TO TALK ABOUT OK BUT YOU TAKE
THEM OUT AND REPLACE THEM WITH
SOMETHING THAT DOESN&apos;T REALLY
LOOK LIKE THEM AT ALL.
DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
YOU HAVE SOMETHING THAT DOESN&apos;T
SOMETHING ALREADY EXISTS THAT
DOESN&apos;T REALLY LOOK RIGHT BUT
AT LEAST IT&apos;S THE HISTORIC
MATERIAL IF YOU REPLACE IT WITH
SOMETHING IT LOOKS RIGHT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW SO LET ME THINK
THE THE WING WAS YOU SAW THOSE
THOSE ARE THOSE ARE
DETERIORATED AND NEED TO BE
REPLACED AND THEN THE THE THE
STAIRS AND THE THE THE DECKING
IT&apos;S A LITTLE WEIRD LIKE
THERE&apos;S A BOLAOS DETAIL ON THE
STAIRS LIKE THE TREADS THE
NOSING OF THE TREADS ARE A
BOLAOS DETAIL AND THE OVERHANG
OF THAT WATER WOULD BE THE
DECKING PART OF THE PORCH IS A
FLAT DETAIL LIKE YOU CAN SEE IN
THE PICTURE THERE.
SO THAT&apos;S JUST MORE EVIDENCE
THAT THOSE TWO PIECES ARE FROM
DIFFERENT TWO DIFFERENT TIME
PERIODS AND THEY&apos;RE VERY
DETERIORATED AND THEY&apos;RE NOT
NECESSARILY UNIQUE.
SO I FEEL LIKE REPLACING THE
FLOORING IN THE STAIRS IS IS IT
LESS OF AN ISSUE TO DISCUSS?
THAT&apos;S IT.
THANK COMMISSIONERS ONLINE.
&gt;&gt; YES.
YEP.
LOOK WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE
ON YOUR MICROPHONE TURN ON YOUR
VIDEO IF POSSIBLE AND PROVIDE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE
RECORD YOU&apos;LL HAVE UP TO FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING TO ADD TO THE REPORT.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
MY NAME IS SACRAMONE FIVE ONE
FOUR WESTERN MEDICINE.
MY WIFE SHANNON AND I BOUGHT
THE HOUSE IN TWENTY SEVENTEEN A
LOT DIFFERENT THAN IT DOES NOW
IF YOU WANT TO COMPARE THE
PHOTO IN THE STAFF REPORT TO
THE PHOTOS YOU&apos;VE SEEN OF THE
PORCH WE&apos;VE PUT SIGNIFICANT
TIME AND MONEY INTO OUR HOUSE
THAT WAS FRANKLY WHEN WE MOVED
IN THE CONCERN IT&apos;S BEING
OVERLOOKED IN ALL OF THIS IS
THAT THE STRUCTURAL STABILITY,
THE PORCH IS A PROBLEM.
SO IF WE NEED TO HAVE A
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER AS TO THE
FACT THAT IT&apos;S COLLAPSING, I
CAN PROVIDE THAT FOR A FUTURE
MEETING THE PILLARS HAVE MOVED
ABOUT THREE INCHES IN THE LAST
FIVE YEARS.
THAT&apos;S AFTER WE SET THEM TO BE
PERPENDICULAR BEFORE THAT AND
THE WHOLE PORCH IS PULLING AWAY
AND FALLING SO THERE&apos;S NO WAY
TO KEEP THE HERE ON WHICH THE
PILLARS SIT THERE ON DIRT
WITHOUT ANY SORT OF STRUCTURE
PILE ON BELOW THE PRESSURE FROM
THAT ROOF AND THOSE PILLARS CAN
NOT BE SUPPORTED BY EFFECTIVELY
SAND BLOCK WITH NO PYLONS
UNDERNEATH THEM AND THAT IS
FUNDAMENTALLY GOT A PROBLEM NOT
SO MUCH THE DETERIORATION
OF THE BRICK ITSELF.
&gt;&gt; AND SO THAT&apos;S YOU KNOW,
THAT&apos;S REALLY OUR CASE.
WE&apos;VE BEEN RENOVATED A WHOLE
HOUSE AND YOU&apos;VE DONE A LOT
OF STUFF.
I GET IT.
I UNDERSTAND IT.
WE&apos;VE BEEN VERY CAREFUL WITH
THE HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;VE BEEN VERY RESPECTFUL
OF EVERYTHING WITH THE HOUSE.
BUT THIS PARTICULAR ISSUE I
MEAN IT&apos;S NOT REPAIRABLE STUFF.
WE HAVE TO WAIT TILL IT FALLS
OVER OR IF HE WANTS TO TRY TO
REPLACE THE FLOOR IN WHICH CASE
THE WHOLE THING&apos;S GOING TO FALL
OVER ANYWAY
.
WE&apos;LL BE REPLACED BUT IT&apos;S NOT
THERE WE CAN GO DOWN THAT ROAD
BUT IT&apos;S FUNDAMENTALLY A MATTER
OF TIME UNTIL THOSE GET
REPLACED.
&gt;&gt; IT SHOULD BE AN HOUR LATER.
&gt;&gt; I GUESS THAT&apos;S REALLY ALL.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONERS.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT LIKE ERM I DO
HAVE ONE QUESTION WAS THERE
CONSIDERATION TO S DISMANTLE
AND SALVAGE THE ANY SOUND
EXISTING MASONRY UNITS AND THEN
SET THOSE ASIDE CONSTRUCT THE
THE NECESSARY STRUCTURAL
FOUNDATIONS TO HELP SUPPORT THE
THE STRUCTURAL ISSUES THAT YOU
JUST DESCRIBED AND REUSE THE
SALVAGED MASONRY UNITS BECAUSE
IT SOUNDED LIKE FROM THE
COMMITTEE SITE VISIT THAT A
NUMBER OF THE UNITS EXISTING
UNITS WERE IN SOUND OR FAIR
CONDITION AS OPPOSED A
WHOLESALE REPLACEMENT IF TO IN
DO FOUNDATION WORK ANYWAY.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
I THE ARE SOFT I MEAN YOU CAN A
SCREWDRIVER AND JAB IT THROUGH
EVEN THE GOOD ONES THEY&apos;RE SO
SOFT.
&gt;&gt; THESE ARE NOT MODERN
CONCRETE BLOCKS RIGHT.
THESE ARE SAND THAT SORT OF PUT
TOGETHER IS A WAY TO LOOK AT IT
AND MUCH OF WHAT YOU SEE IS NOT
EVEN ORIGINAL.
IT&apos;S THE PRIOR OWNER SORT
OF PATCHING ALL THE WAY THROUGH
AND A LOT OF THAT COMES OFF AND
THAT&apos;S WHERE YOU CAN STICK YOUR
HAND THROUGH AS JOHN MENTIONED
EARLIER.
AND SO I DON&apos;T REALLY HAVE ANY
DESIRE TO REPLACE THIS PORTION
.
I&apos;M LOOKING AT IT PURELY FROM A
STRUCTURAL FRANKLY SAFETY WITH
THE TWO YEAR OLD STANDPOINT
THAT IT&apos;S JUST NOT I UNDERSTAND
THE THE THOUGH THE HOUSE THAT&apos;S
WHY WE BOUGHT IT.
IT&apos;S NOT LIKE IT AS JILL
PROBABLY KNOWS WE BOUGHT IT
WITH SOMETHING LIKE THIRTEEN
EXPIRED BUILDING PERMITS
WITHOUT BUYER CAPTAINCY BECAUSE
THE MAJOR FIRE DAMAGE AND
FRANKLY WE BOUGHT IT THREE
OF THOSE PILLARS WERE TWO BY
FOUR.
SOME OF THOSE WEREN&apos;T THERE ON
THE FRONT PORCH TO BE CLEAR,
YOU KNOW, I UNDERSTAND I AM
COMING FROM I UNDERSTAND
HISTORICAL AREA BUT I DON&apos;T
THINK IT&apos;S A PRACTICAL SOLUTION
.
OBVIOUSLY IT&apos;S YOUR DECISION TO
MAKE I THINK INEVITABLY IT WILL
BE REPLACED WHETHER THAT&apos;S TEN
YEARS FROM NOW OR NOW IT WILL
BE REPLACE THE FOR COMPANIES
THAT MAKE THIS BLOCK THAT&apos;S
ANOTHER OPTION TO LOOK THAT
THERE&apos;S CERTAINLY CUSTOM
HISTORIC BLOCK PLACES AND IT&apos;S
PROBABLY COST PROHIBITIVE BUT
IT EXISTS THAT CAN MAKE BLOCK
THIS SIZE MODERN JUST LIKE
THAT.
THESE ARE MADE ON SITE RIGHT.
YOU KNOW BETWEEN 1890 AND 1920S
SEARS ROEBUCK AND OTHERS.
SO YOU KNOW ALL THESE MACHINES
THAT YOU CAN MAKE THESE FOR
FIFTEEN BUCKS OR WHATEVER AT
THE TIME AND AND THAT&apos;S HOW
THEY WERE DONE.
SO THEY&apos;RE NOT SOMETHING THAT
WE CAN DO MODERN.
THAT&apos;S REALLY WHAT I HAVE THAT
I APPRECIATE THE CONSIDERATION
REGARDLESS.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SIR.
UM JUST FOR CLARIFICATION, JOE,
CAN YOU REMIND ME THAT THE
EMAIL THAT WAS SENT WHAT THE
SIZE BLOCKS WERE?
&gt;&gt; I HAVE A LITTLE BIT
OF CONFUSION AND I GUESS IN THE
APPLICATION AND FROM THE EMAIL
WELL LET ME PULL THAT UP AGAIN
.
WHAT&apos;S ACTUALLY BEING PROPOSED
?
I WAS ALSO CONFUSED BECAUSE
THERE WERE SOME INCONSISTENCIES
IN AMONG THE DIFFERENT PAGES SO
RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE WERE ALL BLACK IS
EIGHT INCH BY 20 INCH AND
COLUMN BLOCK IS SIXTEEN BY
SIXTEEN BY EIGHT RIGHT NOW.
OK, I THESE WOULD BE SINGLE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S EXISTING.
YOU&apos;RE SAYING THE EXISTING
RIGHT OK EXISTING TIERS ARE
SIXTEEN BY SIXTEEN SQUARE BY
EIGHT THE EXISTING WALL BLOCK
IS 20 INCHES WIDE BY EIGHT BY
EIGHT SO THEY BOTH HAVE THE
SAME HEIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YES.
YEARS IN THE WALL YES THE PIERS
AND THE LINE IS DIFFERENT WHAT
IS PROPOSED IS ALL SIXTEEN BY
EIGHT BY EIGHT SO THE WALL
BLOCKS WOULD GET FOUR INCHES
NARROWER, SHORTER, LESS WIDE.
YES.
AND THE PIER BLOCKS WOULD BE
JOINED TOGETHER YOU SAID TO
MAKE THEY WOULD BE SIXTEEN BY
SIXTEEN.
YEAH THEY&apos;D IN ORDER TO MAKE IT
APPEAR SQUARE YEAH.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
FOR BLOCKS THEN YOU WOULD USE
TO BLOCK YOUR METERING THEM YOU
WOULD USE FOR SO YOU WOULDN&apos;T
SEE A JOINT RIGHT AND MITER
EACH ONE SO THAT I WOULD LIKE
TO KNOW THAT THAT&apos;S YEAH
EXACTLY BECAUSE IF YOU HAD TO
YOU WOULDN&apos;T HAVE THE CHANCE TO
MITER THEN YOU WOULD JUST BUT
THEN TOGETHER IF YOU HAD FOUR
OF YOU CAN MIGHT HAVE FOUR
OF THEM AND I GUESS GLUE THE
CORNERS SO THAT IT LOOKED LIKE
ONE BIG BLOCK SO THEN THERE
WOULD BE NO VERTICAL JOINT THAT
THAT WOULD PROBABLY THERE WAS A
REFERENCE TO TWENTY FOUR INCH
PIERS ON ONE OF THE DRAWINGS
THAT WAS NOT CONSISTENT WITH
THE OTHER ONES AND I WONDER IF
THAT&apos;S THE WELL YOU CAN STILL
USE SIX INCH BLOCK WRITER FOR
16 INCH BLOCKS AND IT WOULD BE
SIXTEEN BY SIXTEEN OK I GUESS I
DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND METERING SO
I&apos;M GLAD THAT YOU DIDN&apos;T MAKE A
FORTY FIVE DEGREE CUT.
OH OK.
THE CORNER CORNERS.
OH I SEE.
SO JUSTIN CORNERS ARE METERED
OK YEAH SO YOU DON&apos;T YOU DON&apos;T
HAVE THE SEAM SO IF WE&apos;RE TWO
BLOCKS YEAH.
&gt;&gt; LEAD THEN YOU WOULD HAVE A
SEAM EVERY OTHER I SEE BECAUSE
ONLY ONE FACE OF THE BLOCK IS
FINISHED RIGHT SO YOU HAVE TO
USE GOT IT RIGHT.
SO THAT WOULD BE I GUESS
ESSENTIALLY JUST A JOINT AT THE
CORNER OF EVERYTHING YOU GOT IT
WOULD BE OK I MEAN THEY MAY
CORNER BLOCKS THAT HAVE TWO
SIDES LIKE IF YOU HAVE A CORNER
OF A BUILDING RIGHT.
YOU WOULD HAVE TO ADD YOU KNOW,
TWO SIDES RUSTICATED BUT THOSE
WOULD BE AN EIGHT INCH SIDE AND
A SIX INCH SIDE.
YEAH, BUT WHAT WE NEED IS
SIXTEEN ALL THE WAY AROUND.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH.
YEAH OK I MEAN IT I WOULD IF I
COULD SEE A MOCK UP OF ONE
OF THOSE AND IF IT LOOKS YOU
KNOW APPROXIMATE WE LIKE THE
EXISTING OR IF SOMEONE&apos;S
TELLING ME THAT THEY CAN BUILD
THAT BUT SO IS THAT WHAT DO WE
THINK THAT IS WHAT IS PROPOSED
BASED ON CAN WE SEE THAT LETTER
AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I THINK YOU NEED TO I
WOULD WANT TO SEE A DRAWING.
YEAH.
YEAH YEAH.
THAT ARE LIKE A MOCK UP.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
THE DETAIL SOME DETAILS SHOWING
WILL BE USING FOR THE PROJECT
PUT THE ORIGINAL WORK AS MUCH
AS POSSIBLE UNDER MY ARMS
TOGETHER TO GIVE THE LOOK O
SOLID SIXTEEN BY SIXTEEN BLOCK
BUT THEN IT SAYS THE BASE BLOCK
WILL BE SLIGHTLY SHORTER THAN
THE EXISTING.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT IS THE WALL
BLOCK.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT MEANS THE PORCH
BASE WHICH IS THE WALLS AND
THOSE ARE SHORTER.
THOSE ARE SIXTEEN INSTEAD
OF TWENTY INCHES IF YOU OH
SHORTER THAT&apos;S SHORTER.
&gt;&gt; YEAH OK HITWISE SHORTER
YEAH.
&gt;&gt; HUH OK SO I WAS TRYING TO
SEE IF THERE WERE ANY I JUST
WANTED CLARIFICATION ON WHAT
WAS BEING PROPOSED AND IF IT
WAS ANY OTHER CLARIFICATION WE
NEEDED FROM THE APPLICANT.
I THINK THIS DRAWINGS FOR THIS
WE COULD ASK FOR A WITH THEY
COULD BRING IN THE DRAWING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH WE ACTUALLY CAN&apos;T ASK
FOR A CONTINUATION ON THIS ONE
BECAUSE WE HAVE NO NOVEMBER
MEETING SO SOME ACTION NEEDS TO
BE TAKEN ON THIS APPLICATION SO
YOU DON&apos;T RUN INTO THE 60 DAY
TIME PERIOD LIMIT BECAUSE I
MEAN I WOULD ALSO VERY GOOD
COMMISSIONER.
I WOULD SAY I WOULD ALSO I MEAN
THE APPLICANT SPOKE TO THE
POTENTIAL OF PROVIDING A REPORT
FOR A STRUCTURE FROM A
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER ON THE
CONDITION OF PORCHLIGHT THIS
BECAUSE THIS IS SUCH A
SIGNIFICANT FEATURE AND HE
DESIRES TO REMOVE THE WHOLE
THING.
I WOULD LIKE TO ALSO SEE THAT
TO YES.
YOU KNOW, TO FEEL LIKE OK, LET
IT GO.
SO IF THERE IS SOME SORT
OF MAYBE ACTION OR A DENIAL
WITH AN UNDERSTANDING THAT
WE&apos;RE NOT JUST LIKE GO GO AWAY,
NEVER COME BACK BUT JUST HEY,
WE NEED THIS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION.
UM YEAH.
OK.
WE BOTH YOU CAN SUSPEND THE
RULE REALLY IT&apos;S IT&apos;S SILLY.
WE ARE IT&apos;S IT&apos;S NOT A CITY
RULE IT&apos;S A WOULD HAVE TO DO SO
MUCH IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE HE
DIDN&apos;T THINK HE WOULD MEET THE
REQUIREMENT.
WE&apos;RE NOT ME AND REALLY WE&apos;RE
NOT VERY MUCH I SEE.
WHICH HAS BEEN APPROVED
REASONABLE THEN THEY CAN GIVE
US THE DRAFT AND AND THE REASON
SOME OF THE REASON IT&apos;S OUT
THAT HE IS NOT MEET THE
STANDARD IS US WITH THE P HERE
.
ARE YOU SAYING IT&apos;S AN
INCOMPLETE APPLICATION?
I GUESS I&apos;M WONDERING ARE YOU
SAYING THAT WE CAN LOOK AT THIS
AS AN INCOMPLETE APPLICATION
TILL DECEMBER WHEN WE NEED IT?
YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S WHAT I GUESS
I&apos;M ASKING THE STAFF IF WE
LOOKED
THIS IS AN INCOMPLETE
APPLICATION I.E. WE DON&apos;T HAVE
THE STRUCTURAL REPORT AND WE
DON&apos;T HAVE APPROPRIATE
DRAWINGS.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
ERM I THINK IF THAT&apos;S AN
INTERESTING IDEA I THINK IF
RIGHT NOW YOU HAVE THE BODY
DECIDED TO REJECT THIS
APPLICATION IT WOULD
ESSENTIALLY BE RESUBMITTED FOR
THE DECEMBER MEETING.
I&apos;VE NEVER HEARD OF THAT BEING
DONE BEFORE BUT IF THE
APPLICANT IS AMENABLE I THINK
THAT IF EVERYBODY AGREES THAT
THIS APPLICATION IS INCOMPLETE
NEEDS THIS THESE THESE AT LEAST
TWO PIECES OF INFORMATION THAT
THEN AS LONG AS YOU DON&apos;T TAKE
ACTION IT COULD COME BACK IN
DECEMBER.
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S ALSO UNCLEAR IN
THE DRAWING SOME OF THE
INFORMATION.
SO I THINK THAT YES.
YEAH, YEAH.
&gt;&gt; AND I DON&apos;T THINK THAT YOU
COULD NORMALLY DO THAT BUT I
THINK THAT A STRUCTURAL
ENGINEERS REPORT IS SOMETHING A
LITTLE MORE SUBSTANTIAL THAN
JUST WE NEED A DRAWING
OF SOMETHING.
I DO THINK THAT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S A
REASONABLE WAY TO GO ABOUT IT.
WE WOULD NEED TO GET ZACKS BUY
IN ON THAT THOUGH.
SO LET&apos;S STOP THIS SHARE.
OK, COMMISSIONER FOR TEN OH OK.
WE NOT HAD APPROVED MOTIONS
THAT WE THAT WERE CONDITIONAL
ON THINGS BEING SUBMITTED FOR
STAFF REVIEW.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YOU CAN DO THAT TOO SO
WE COULD SAY SUBMIT THIS YOU
KNOW WE APPROVE THIS ON
CONDITION THAT THE STRUCTURAL
ENGINEER REPORT IS SUBMITTED
DRAWING IS OUR DRAWINGS THAT
SHOW REPLICATION OF THE
ORIGINAL DIMENSIONS OF THE BOX
REPLICATION PATTERN SOMETHING
IN THE STAFF REVIEW AND THEN IT
MIGHT NOT EVEN TAKE TILL
NOVEMBER.
THAT&apos;S ANOTHER APPROACH THAT
YOU GUYS COULD TAKE.
BUT WOULD THAT NEW INFORMATION
BE PURELY STAFF REVIEW PER VIEW
OR IS THAT INFORMATION THAT WE
AS A BODY WANT TO SEE?
WELL, THAT&apos;S WHEN WE DESCRIBE
WHAT THAT HAS TO BE DETAILED,
FAIRLY COMFORTABLE CONDITIONS
ASSESSMENT OF THE MASONRY, THE
MOTION.
NO, THAT&apos;S NOT IN IT.
I THINK I&apos;D WANT TO SEE THOSE
THINGS DUE TO THE KIND
OF DISTINCTIVE CHARACTER THIS
SPECIFIC ELEMENT THAT&apos;S JUST ME
.
OK, YEAH I&apos;VE SEEN THAT FOR
COMMISSIONERS.
&gt;&gt; YES.
SO ZACH, THIS IS RATHER A
CREATIVE APPROACH BUT IF YOU
ARE AMENABLE TO GETTING THE
COMMISSION MORE INFORMATION ON
WHAT THOSE MIGHT PIERS WOULD
LOOK LIKE AND ALSO A STRUCTURAL
ENGINEER REPORT THAT WOULD
INCREASE THEIR COMFORT LEVEL
IMMENSELY WITH REPLACING, YOU
KNOW, MORE OF THE MATERIALS
THAT ARE THERE IF YOU ARE
AMENABLE TO THAT, YOU WOULD YOU
WOULD ESSENTIALLY BE
WITHDRAWING YOUR APPLICATION
RIGHT NOW AND THEN RESUBMITTING
IT BECAUSE WE HAVE TO TAKE
ACTION WITHIN SIXTY DAYS ON ALL
APPLICATIONS.
IF WE DON&apos;T TAKE ACTION IN
SIXTY DAYS THEN IT&apos;S
AUTOMATICALLY APPROVED.
SO AND I DO THINK THAT THE
APPLICANT WITHDRAWING IT RIGHT
NOW WOULD BE A LITTLE CLEANER
THAN US SAYING IT&apos;S INCOMPLETE
AT THIS POINT BECAUSE WE&apos;RE
HERE.
BUT YOU&apos;D HAVE TO AGREE TO
THAT.
YEAH, THAT&apos;S FINE.
AND WITHDRAWING IT ALSO GIVES
ME THE OPTION TO DECIDE WHETHER
TO RESUBMIT EFFECTIVELY INSTEAD
OF COMMITTING TO THAT.
YEAH.
SO THAT&apos;S FINE.
I CAN ALSO HELPFUL PROVIDE
PHOTOS THAT I THINK THREE OTHER
PARTNERS THAT HAVE THE SAME
PILLARS AND THE SAME BLOCK
STRUCTURE THAT HAVE BEEN
IMPLEMENTED AND COMPLETELY NEW
WITH NEW BLOCK ON THE OLD WEST
SIDE TO THE EXTENT THAT&apos;S
HELPFUL I THINK ONE OF THEM WAS
DONE IN THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS, ONE OF THEM ON
LIBERTY BY THE BIG BERFIELD HAS
ALMOST EXACTLY THE SAME PORCH
BUT IT HAS BEEN COMPLETELY
REPLACED AND HAS REALLY BAD
MITERS ON ON THE NOT LIKE YOU
WANT.
THEY&apos;RE SORT OF THE REALLY
NINETY DEGREE LIKE UGLY MINOR
BUT BUT IT DOES EXIST IT IS
UNIQUE IN ITS OWN WAY BUT THE
IDEA OF PILLAR SUPPORTED THOSE
BLOCK PYLONS EXISTS FOR SURE SO
OK SO I THINK I WILL
VOLUNTARILY WITHDRAW AND DECIDE
WHETHER RESUBMIT I DON&apos;T THINK
IT IMPACTS THE PROJECT.
I THINK WE&apos;RE KIND OF ODYSSEAS
IN ANY WAY AT THIS POINT IN
TERMS OF WHETHER YOU GET IT
DONE.
&gt;&gt; SO OK, WE&apos;RE GOING TO
ACTUALLY DO THE WORK AT THIS
POINT.
&gt;&gt; OK, CAN I JUST ADD ONE ONE
MORE POINT THAT I&apos;D BE CURIOUS
AND SEEING IS JUST HOW YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO REPLICATE THE TWENTY
INCH WIDE BLOCKS TO THAT.
THAT WAS ANOTHER STICKING POINT
THAT WE WERE HAVING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
THE OTHER PORCHES LIKE THIS
THAT HAVE BEEN REPLACED IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD DO 16 AND 16 FOR
THEY DON&apos;T DO A SOLID 20 PHOTOS
.
I&apos;M NOT SUGGESTING THAT I WANT
TO DO X.
I THINK THAT&apos;S ACTUALLY MUCH
LIKE THE BAD WRITER I JUST
DISCUSSED BUT THAT IS HOW
THEY&apos;VE DONE IT ON OTHER FORCES
THAT HAVE BEEN REPLACED.
OK, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU JACK.
THANK YOU JACK.
YOU DIDN&apos;T GET THAT BECAUSE I
AGREE IT WOULD BE BETTER DONE
THAT BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THAT
LOOKS LIKE IN REALITY.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
WITHDRAW AND RESUBMIT WITH
NEEDED INFORMATION IN THE
FUTURE IF I DECIDE TO DO THAT,
I&apos;M JUST GOING TO LEAVE YOUR
APPLICATION IN OUR TRACK OR IN
STREAM SYSTEM SO WE CAN JUST GO
BACK TO IT.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU DECIDE TO
RESUBMIT THE NEXT SIX MONTHS
THEN CLOSE IT OUT LATER IF YOU
DON&apos;T PROCEED OK?
YEAH AND IF I DECIDE THAT
TWENTY VERSATILITY OBVIOUSLY
KNOW THAT&apos;D BE GREAT.
THANK YOU SIR.
THANK YOU.
OK THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
ONE TWO ITEM FIVE FIVE FORTY
THREE DETROIT STREET THIS
APPLICATION HAS BEEN POSTPONED.
WE WILL HOLD A PUBLIC HEARING
SO NOW OPEN THAT THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO SPEAK
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES ABOUT
THE POSTED APPLICATION AT FIVE
FORTY THREE DETROIT STREET YOU
CAN CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN INTERMEETING NINE SIX
FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE
SEVEN SIX TWO AND PRESS STAR
NINE ON YOUR PHONE TO INDICATE
YOU WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK MANY NO
CALLERS RIGHT INCLUDING THE
PUBLIC HEARING PUSHING FOR A
FIVE ONTO A SIX FOUR FOUR S
FIRST STREET.
PLEASE GIVE THE STATE
DEPARTMENT&apos;S THAT ONE OH OH
COME ON
SHARING MY SCREEN.
ALL RIGHT.
FOUR FOR S FIRST STREET WAS
BEFORE YOU LAST MONTH FOR
CONSIDERATION OF AN ADDITION
THAT WAS NOT APPROVED.
SO I&apos;M NOT GOING TO GO THROUGH
A LOT OF THE HISTORY AND THINGS
BUT A NEW APPLICATION HAS BEEN
SUBMITTED TO ADD A SMALLER
EDITION ON THE SOUTHWEST CORNER
OF THE HOUSE WITH A SECOND
STORY THAT EXTENDS SLIGHTLY
OVER THE REAR OF THE GARAGE TO
INSTALL PARKING PAD AND TO
REMOVE THE CHIMNEY SO HERE IS
THE HOUSE ONCE AGAIN WE HAD A
REALLY GORGEOUS DAY FOR TAKING
PHOTOGRAPHS ON MONDAY.
IT WAS REALLY NICE AS YOU&apos;LL
RECALL DOWN THIS DRIVEWAY
THERE&apos;S A LITTLE NOTCH HERE
BETWEEN THE LITTLE CORNER,
BETWEEN THE GARAGE AND THE
HOUSE AND THIS IS WHERE AN
ADDITION THE SIMILARLY SIZED TO
THE ONE THAT YOU GUYS
CONSIDERED LAST MONTH WOULD BE
CONSTRUCTED.
IT WOULD BE A TWO STOREY
ADDITION PRETTY MUCH MOSTLY
OVER THIS BACK CORNER THOUGH
AND A LITTLE BIT OUT OVER THE
VERY BACK OF THE GARAGE.
THE ENTIRE TWO STOREY ADDITION
WOULD BE BEHIND THIS WINDOW FOR
REFERENCE.
SO NO NO SIGNIFICANT
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES WOULD BE
LOST THERE IS THIS WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THIS ONE SMALL
WINDOW ON THE BACK AND THAT IS
THE CHIMNEY THAT IS PROPOSED TO
BE REMOVED AS PART OF THE
APPLICATION.
SO HERE IS THE PROPOSED FIRST
FLOOR PLAN.
THE GRAY AREA IS THE NEW ADA
RESTROOM THAT&apos;S REQUIRED FOR A
COMMERCIAL USE WHICH THIS
BUILDING IS PROPOSED TO BE USED
FOR MAINLY OFFICE WITH SOME
RESIDENTIAL ROOF PLAN.
YOU CAN SEE IT HAS IT&apos;S A YOU
KNOW, A GABLE THAT TIES IN WELL
BELOW THE EXISTING ROOF RIDGE.
THERE&apos;S THE CHIMNEY WOULD BE
REMOVED FROM UNPATCHED THE
GARAGE WOULD GET A NEW ROOF
WITH A WITH A SLIGHTLY
INCREASED TO GET THE WATER OFF
OF IT AND YOU CAN SEE THIS
SLIDE.
HOW SO?
I&apos;M HAVING TROUBLE WITH MY
MOUSE.
THE GARAGE EXTENT IS HERE BUT
THE SECOND FLOOR EXTENDS
SLIGHTLY OVER THE GARAGE.
IT&apos;S NOT THE FRONT WALL HERE
EXTENDS DOWN TO THE GARAGE ROOF
BUT THERE&apos;S A PLANUM SPACE, A
DEAD SPACE BETWEEN THE ADDITION
AND THE ROOF OF THE GARAGE.
THESE ARE THE EXISTING
ELEVATIONS.
I&apos;M GOING TO GO OVER THEM
RATHER QUICKLY IF YOU WANT TO
GO BACK.
I CAN.
SO THIS IS THE SOUTH OR THE
DRIVEWAY ELEVATION.
THIS IS THE ADDITION ON THE
BACK HERE HAS ALREADY KEPT
SIDING WITH THREE INCH EXPOSURE
AND THE THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF NEW WINDOWS THAT ARE
ALUMINUM CLAD TO DISTINGUISH
THEM FROM THE ORIGINAL WINDOWS
WHICH ARE NOT ALUMINUM CLAD AND
THE SHINGLES UP HERE ARE ALSO
HARDY SHINGLES
.
THIS IS AN EGRESS WINDOW.
SO IF THAT SECOND FLOOR WERE
EVER TURNED BACK INTO A
SLEEPING ROOM THAT WOULD BE
AVAILABLE.
AS YOU&apos;LL RECALL, THIS GARAGE
IS A HALF AN INCH FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE.
&gt;&gt; IT IS ZONED COMMERCIAL.
SO IT&apos;S IT&apos;S OK PER ZONING.
IT&apos;S JUST REALLY CLOSE.
THE NEW EDITION IS HERE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT&apos;S JUST ON A
FOUNDATION.
IT DOES NOT HAVE A BASEMENT
BENEATH IT AND IS INSET FROM
THIS CORNER SUBSTANTIALLY WHICH
I REALLY APPRECIATE AND IT&apos;S
INSET A LITTLE BIT LESS FROM
THIS GARAGE CORNER BUT THIS
WALL IS JUST JUST GETTING
ENOUGH SPACE ON THAT FIRST
FLOOR WAS VERY DIFFICULT BUT
THEY THEY WERE ABLE TO INSIDE
IT WHICH I APPRECIATE YOU CAN
SEE THIS IS THAT EXISTING
HISTORIC WINDOW THAT&apos;S NOT
GOING ANYWHERE NOT BEING
TOUCHED A LITTLE GABLE HERE,
YOU KNOW, MIMICS THE LARGER
GABLES DOESN&apos;T HAVE THAT THE
WIDE TRIM BOARDS THOUGH THAT I
THINK ARE PRESENT IN THE CABLES
HERE.
WE MIGHT HAVE TO GO BACK TO A
PHOTO TO LOOK YOU CAN SEE WHERE
THE CHIMNEY IS BEING REMOVED.
HERE&apos;S THE NEW WORK HERE THE
GARAGE PARAPET REMAINS.
THIS IS THE PARAPET WALL HERE.
THIS IS HARDY LAPPE SIDING ON
THE NEW ADDITIONS BELOW A TRIM
BOARD HERE TO SORT OF MAKE IT
RECEDE.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S PRETTY FAR BACK SO
IT&apos;S NOT EVER GOING TO LOOK
LIKE THIS.
BUT IF YOU LOOKED AT IT FROM AN
ANGLE YOU WOULD SEE BACK THERE
OH YEAH.
THIS IS THE THIS IS THE EXTENT
OF THE SECOND FLOOR AND THAT
WOULD BE THAT LITTLE PHILBIN&apos;S
HERE&apos;S THAT NEW THAT SPACE THAT
I WAS TALKING ABOUT THAT
PLANUM.
SO THE ADDITION IS BUILT ON
POSTS THIS WILL GO BEYOND THE
INTERIOR OF THE GARAGE SO YOU
WON&apos;T SEE IT AND THIS IS THE
SECOND FLOOR OFFICE SPACE AND
WITH A LITTLE GABLE SO I&apos;VE
ALREADY READ THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS ALL
OF THESE I DIDN&apos;T READ THE
GUIDELINE FOR ROOF OR IT&apos;S
APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN ORIGINAL ROOFING
MATERIALS ROOF SHAPE DORMERS
PLUS CHIMNEYS AND BUILT IN ARE
DECORATIVE GUTTERS AND
DOWNSPOUTS AND THAT IT&apos;S NOT
APPROPRIATE TO REMOVE CHIMNEYS
IF IF THEY ARE HISTORIC ROOF
FEATURE.
BUT I DID GO THROUGH ALL OF THE
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS ON OUR
PREVIOUS AND WE&apos;RE NOT SUPPOSED
TO HAVE THAT ONE IN THERE
ANYWAY SO I&apos;M NOT GOING TO GO
OVER ALL THOSE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS BECAUSE YOU&apos;VE
ALREADY HEARD THEM TODAY.
SO STAFF DOES IT THINK THAT
THIS IS A MUCH MORE REASONABLE
APPROACH TO THIS EDITION AND
AND THAT IT&apos;S LOCATED IN THE
CORRECT PLACE AND IT IT&apos;S SIZED
APPROPRIATELY.
IT DOESN&apos;T INTERFERE WITH
HISTORIC MATERIALS TO THE
EXTENT POSSIBLE KEEPS THESE
WINDOWS, KEEPS THE GARAGE
READING AS A GARAGE WITH JUST A
SMALL OVERHANG HERE ON THE BACK
AND STEPH DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR CHAIRMAN.
THE COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS
ROCKLIN THIS WILL BE A QUICK
ONE.
SO YES I AGREE WITH SELFS
INTERPRETATION OF THE SITUATION
AND SO WHEN YOU&apos;RE OUT THERE IT
IS FUNNY YOU DO SEE THIS THIS
REALLY LITTLE TINY SPACE IN THE
BACK OF THE GARAGE WHERE THE
NEW ADDITIONS WILL KIND OF BE
NOT JUST LOCATED IN THE RIGHT
AND I BELIEVE LAST MONTH WHEN
THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT PUTTING
THE BATHROOM WAS THE BEST
LOCATION.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO YEAH.
SO I FEEL LIKE AS A COMMISSION
WE ARE OK WITH THE BATHROOM
BEING OVER THERE SO I DO
APPRECIATE THE FACT THAT THE
APPLICANT TOOK OUR AND THE
ARCHITECT TOOK OUR ISSUES INTO
CONSIDERATION AND THEN CAME
BACK WITH A THOUGHTFUL REDESIGN
OF REALLY PUSHING THE SECOND
STORY BACK TO WHERE THEY
PROPOSED THE GARAGE.
SO TO ME I FELT LIKE IT WAS
THIS IS DEFINITELY A CASE WHERE
THE APPLICANT AND THE ARCHITECT
WAS LOOKING AT KIND
OF PROVIDING WHAT THEY NEEDED
BUT IN A IN A VERY MINIMAL WAY
JUST MAKE IT FUNCTIONAL AND I
GUESS THIS GOES BACK TO
COMMISSIONER ROCKLANDS.
YOU&apos;VE GOT THE CROSS GABLED
SITUATION WHERE THE ROOF OF THE
NEW EDITION IS SET LOWER WELL
LOWER THAN THE MAIN ROOFLINE
AND YES, I THINK IT&apos;S A VERY
WELL THOUGHT OUT PROPOSAL FOR A
NEW TWO STOREY EDITION ON THIS
PROPERTY.
&gt;&gt; I AGREE 100 PERCENT WITH
THAT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF IT WAS NOTED
BUT THE I&apos;LL JUST SAY THAT THE
EVE OF THE EDITION IS AT A
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT ELEVATION
THAN THE EVE OF THE EXISTING
WHICH IS A NICE WAY TO
DIFFERENTIATE AND I JUST THINK
THAT WE&apos;VE SAID IT I&apos;VE SAID IT
ALREADY TONIGHT BECAUSE OUR
HOUSES ARE DIFFICULT BUT THIS
IS THIS JUST DOES A REALLY GOOD
JOB OF GETTING JUST WHAT THEY
NEEDED AND APPROPRIATELY ADDING
TO A CORNER HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COMMISSIONERS
WITH THE APPLICANT FINALLY
PLEASE STEP FORWARD AND STATE
YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD,
YOU&apos;RE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
ADD ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO TO
THIS REPORT.
&gt;&gt; THE MEDIA REPORTS I AM NOT
THROUGH TO ANGELINA BUT I WILL
BE SPEAKING ON HER BEHALF.
ANGELINA ASSOCIATES ARCHITECTS
ON BEHALF OF MARY ALBRIGHT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF WE HAVE THE
SLIDESHOW THAT WE PRESENTED BUT
IT MAY BE A MOOT POINT AT THIS
POINT AS FAR AS KIND OF LIKE
NEW INFORMATION WE THINK
ADDRESSED THE CONCERNS THAT YOU
GUYS HAD PREVIOUSLY WITHOUT
OVERLY COMPROMISING THE
CLIENT&apos;S WISHES OF ADDING
OFFICE SPACE AND GETTING THAT
PDA RESTROOM ON THE FIRST FLOOR
SO I GUESS I&apos;LL JUST OPEN IT UP
TO QUESTIONS AT THIS POINT OR
ANY CONCERNS.
BUT OBVIOUSLY YOU ARE FAMILIAR
THIS HOUSE AND PROJECT AND IT&apos;S
GETTING LATE SO I WILL DEFER TO
YOU GUYS ON THE COMMISSIONERS.
ANY QUESTIONS?
NO.
RIGHT.
NOT THAT THEY&apos;VE SAID I THINK
IT SEEMS THIS ONE SEEMS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
OH, GO.
THANK YOU.
UH, I&apos;LL OPEN UP FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT IF THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO SPEAK
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES ON THE
APPLICATION FOR OR FOR S FIRST
STREET, WE HAVE NO ZOOME
ATTENDEES ANYMORE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
SO PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED FOR
THIS APPLICATION.
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
COMMISSIONER FOR YOU?
I MOVE THAT COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION OF HORROR
FOR S FIRST STREET, A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO CONSTRUCT AN ADDITION ON THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF THE HOUSE
WITH A SECOND STORY THAT
EXTENDS MODESTLY OVER THE REAR
OF THE GARAGE INSTALL A
CONCRETE PARKING PAD AND REMOVE
THE CHIMNEY AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO, FIVE, NINE AND
TEN IN THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AS WAS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR THE
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
SUPPORT MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE HOUSE THEIR
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
I JUST WANT TO REITERATE I ALSO
APPRECIATE THE APPLICANT AND
THEIR TEAM TAKING INTO
CONSIDERATION OUR CONCERNS AND
LOOKS LIKE THEY CLEARLY HEARD
US AND IT LOOKS LIKE A GREAT
MEETING THE MINDS AND
COMPROMISE BETWEEN THE CLIENT&apos;S
WISHES AND BEING RESPECTFUL
HISTORIC RESOURCE READY FOR A
VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE
SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
RIGHT THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY PERMITS BEFORE BEGINNING
WORK ON YOUR PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
THANK YOU FOR COMING BACK IN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THE LAST HEARING ON TO ENERGY
NEW BUSINESS THERE IS NO NEW
BUSINESS ON TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA.
THERE IS NO ALL RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;M JUST BREEZING RIGHT?
WE GOT THERE.
I&apos;M LOOKING AT MY NO NOTHING
BOMB WE YOU&apos;RE THE NOMINATING
COMMITTEE I BELIEVE IS OPEN TO
CONTINUE TO DO I HAVE TO DECIDE
TONIGHT ON WHETHER WE AS A BODY
ARE VOTING TONIGHT.
I COULD CONTINUE I COULD
CONTINUE WITH DAVID SHAKING HIS
HEAD BY WAY OF EVERYONE PEOPLE
GOING TO OFFICES WILL CONTINUE
TO GO TO YET YOU COULD BE IN
FOR TWO YEARS IN A ROW THEN YOU
HAVE TO GET SO ANYBODY ELSE
WITHOUT BE IN OFFICE OFFICER WE
HAVE WE HAVE MULTI THE
CHAIRPERSON VICE CHAIR
SECRETARY AND WE ARE ANNA AND
THAT PERSON IS PERSON WE WOULD
BE ROCHLIN AS VICE CHAIR AND
JESSE JESSICA JESSICA
YEAH.
SECRETARY ANYBODY ELSE LIKE TO
BE AVAILABLE SO WE WON&apos;T WE
ONLY HAVE THREE IT&apos;S OPEN IF
YOU LIKE MY IF NOT NO OBJECTION
YOU DO NEED IT YOU DO NEED TO
VOTE.
YOU SAID NO OBJECTIONS OR WE
COULD VERY WELL DON&apos;T SAY IT
SAYS IN THE BYLAWS AND ANOTHER
ALVERA THIS PLEASE VOTE YES YES
YES YES VOTE NO NAY UNANIMOUS
DECISION.
&gt;&gt; NO THANK YOU OFFICER SENIOR
POSITION POSITION CHIEF.
SO THIS WILL BE OUR SECOND YEAR
.
YES.
SO NEXT YEAR WE WILL NEED TO BE
A BIG MIX UP.
&gt;&gt; THE CHAIR WILL BE DONE.
YOU CANNOT BE CHAIR ANYMORE AND
TRADITIONALLY THE VICE CHAIR
MOVES UP IN THE SECRETARY SO BE
THINKING ABOUT THAT IF YOU
DON&apos;T WANT TO DO THAT FOR SOME
REASON LET US KNOW NEXT
SEPTEMBER.
OH, JOHN BOLTON&apos;S THE WALL
STREET DIPLOMACY WITH WELL IT&apos;S
WHOEVER WANTS TO DO IT REALLY
YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO DO I WAS
WILLING TO DO IT TRADITIONALLY.
TRADITIONALLY YEAH.
THIS IS A BOARD THAT LIKES
TRADITION SO THANK YOU ALL.
I&apos;M SURE YOU WANT ME HISTORY.
I WAS JUST THANK YOU AND ANY
OTHER NEWS DURING I MAY HAVE
OVERLOOKED.
NO THAT&apos;S GUIDING US ONE ITEM
EIGHT APPROVED MINUTES SO WE
DID RECEIVE AUGUST AND
SEPTEMBER MINUTES BECAUSE
EVERYONE HAD TO TAKE A LEAVE.
I CAN GIVE THEM SOME BUT THEY
WERE SENT TO VIRTUALLY YEAH
YEAH.
SORRY THAT&apos;S ALL THOSE CAME
LATE BUT DID EVERYONE HAVE A
CHANCE TO REVIEW OR NEED A
MINUTE.
OK NO OBJECTIONS.
MINUTES ARE APPROVED AS
PRESENTED.
THANK ONTO ITEM BY REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS.
ARE THERE ANY REPORTS FROM ANY
COMMISSIONERS I&apos;D LIKE TO SHARE
.
I COULD GIVE SOME NEWS FROM
COBBLESTONED FROM THAT THE ONE
SILVER LINING TO THE VANDALISM
WITH THE WINDOWS IS THAT THE
CITY HAS PROVED YOU KNOW, THEY
WERE IN THE IN THE PROCESS
OF CONTRACTING FOR SPECIFIC
WINDOW REPAIR BECAUSE SOME
OF THE WINDOWS THAT WERE VERY
BADLY IN NEED OF IT AND THE
CITY HAS DECIDED TO SUPPORT ALL
THE WINDOWS BEING REFURBISHED
AND THE SHUTTERS BEING UP THEY
HAVE TO BE REPLACED OR JUST
REFURBISHED BUT COME SO THAT
THEY ARE FUNCTIONAL AND CAN
PROTECT THE WINDOWS.
&gt;&gt; INTERESTING.
SO THAT&apos;LL BE FALLING OVER THE
NEXT YEAR.
YEAH.
YEAH GREAT.
THAT&apos;S GREAT.
THANK YOU.
AREN&apos;T YOU ONTO ITEM JUSTYNA
FOR THE DECEMBER 5TH MEETING I
THOUGHT DECEMBER EIGHT MEETING
AT SOME COMMITTEE WOULD BE ON
MONDAY DECEMBER 5TH AT NOON
LONG FROM NOW.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I THINK VOLUNTEER HOURS
I HANDED THEM OVER OK WERE SO
SORRY ABOUT IT.
I&apos;M SORRY DID YOU.
YES BERMAN I VOLUNTEER.
THANK YOU BOTH.
EXCELLENT.
I PROMISE THE WEATHER WILL BE
GOOD JEFFREY I PUT IT IN NOW
BEFORE I FORGET.
YEAH THAT&apos;S A GOOD IDEA RIGHT
SO GET ON TO REPORTS FROM STAFF
GROUP AGAIN THERE WAS NO
REPORTING OK UM OH CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS ARE TO SHARE
COMMUNICATIONS NO
COMMUNICATIONS AND ONTO AN
ADJOURNMENT NOW ADJOURNED UNTIL
OCTOBER 13TH MEETING OF ANOTHER
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION